Over 140 Nigerians and boxing fans from other countries have arrived in Sydney to support Australia-based Nigeria’s former Commonwealth and Olympics boxer, Nestor Bolum in his quest to wrestle the World Boxing Foundation (WBF) Australia/Asia Crown Lightweight title from New Zealand’s Shiva Mishra today. The fight, a 10 round contest, will take place in Sydney, and is being promoted by the Neutral Corner Fight Promotion, property of Mr. Paul Nasiri Nicolas and Afif Mikael of AMS Scaffolding in Australia. Speaking with The Guardian just before his weighing ceremony yesterday, Bolum, who is making a comeback to the ring after spending two years in retirement, said that he would do everything to impress his fans who had paid their way to Sydney to support him. He revealed that thousands of his fans, including 140 Nigerians and nationals from Lebanon, Fuji and Samoa had arrived the venue to give him the support he needs to floor his New Zealand opponent, Shiva Mishra. “I have a big and strong fan base here in Sydney,” he said. “They have made a lot of sacrifices by paying their way here. They have also bought tickets because of the love they have for me. The only way to pay them back is to go into the ring on Saturday (today) and give Shiva Mishra the beating of his life and grab the title from him,” Bolum stated. He disclosed that among the 140 Nigerians who have arrived in Sydney, 40 of them bought VIP tickets for the fight. Bolum also hinted yesterday that some persons were trying to frustrate his effort saying: “They are working round the clock to see that I pull out from the fight, but I won’t. I will prove to them that I am a Nigerian. We don’t quit because of intimidations.” In November 2016, Bolum made big headlines in Australia when he defeated his challenger, Apichet Siakane of Thailand, on points. Bolum was one of Nigeria’s strong performers at the Athens 2004 Olympic Games. “I don’t see Shiva Mishra lasting more than three rounds,” he said. “I have watched his fights, and I have the secret weapons to silence him.” At Athens 2004 Olympics, Bolum fought in the Bantamweight 54kg class, where Thailand’s Worapoj Petchkoomin edged him out in the quarterfinal. Bolum, a former Nigerian Air Force officer, who hails from Ughelli, Delta State, grabbed a silver medal for Nigeria at the Abuja 2003 All African Games and was a semifinalist at the Commonwealth Games in Melbourne in 2006, where he lost to the eventual winner, Akhil Kumar. He took his professional boxing career to Canada some years ago before relocating to Sydney, Australia. The fight against Apichet Siakane of Thailand in 2016 was the first for Bolum since he quit active boxing in January 2011. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .