A two-year-old baby, Ayinla Kehinde, is critically ill and needs N2 million to survive.She was diagnosed of Tetralogy of Fallot (TOF) at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, Ikeja (LASUTH). Tvhe disease, as indicated by the laboratory report, is characterised by ventricular septal defect, pulmonary stenosis, overriding aorta and right ventricular hypertrophy. For baby Kehinde to be well again, she needs to undergo a heart surgery at Babcock University Cardiovascular Reserve Unit, Ogun State. The bill for the treatment is estimated at N2.9 million. According to the pro forma invoice signed by the hospital’s Account Officer, Abolarin Ayodeji, “this bill covers only the estimated procedures. There will be an additional charge if the patient stays above the stipulated days in ICU/step down and any other incidental examination that is not part of the stated bill.” Meanwhile, the parents have been able to raise N1 million, which they have deposited into the hospital’s bank account hoping to raise the remaining sum.  But baby Kehinde’s health is fast deteriorating due to the delay in conducting the corrective surgery. She is presently being managed for stroke and seizure at the Paediatric Unit of LASUTH, hence the need to urgently conduct the surgery. According to the father of the baby, Ibrahim Ayinla, he is crying out to kind-hearted Nigerians to help Kehinde to live by donating for her treatment as the family has exhausted every other means it could raise funds. Ayinla said the condition of Kehinde’s heart was noticed when she was six months old, adding that the family has been shouldering the responsibility of her treatment since then. If you are touched by baby Kehinde’s condition and wants to help, you can send your donation to Babcock University Cardiovascular Reserve via Account Number 1015838011, Zenith Bank and then contact the family on 07068440269 or to Ayinla Ibrahim A via Account Number: 0018504306, GTB.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .