Eight lecturers of Akwa Ibom state University, Ikot Akpaden, have lost their job for alleged sexual harassment. Addressing journalists at the university main campus, the Vice Chancellor, Prof. Eno Ibanga, said the lecturers were sacked for sexually harassing some female students and for extortion. According to him, some of the cases were in court, adding that, 10 students involved in cultism were also caught by the management of the institution, saying that, the students  were caught at the junction of the main campus with a mini coffin, red clothe and axes while on their way for an initiation ceremony. He explained that, the university was doing its best to instill sanity among lecturers and students, adding that, such cases were thoroughly investigated by the management before disciplinary measures are carried out. Hear him, “The appointment of 8 lecturers has been terminated by the university bordering on sexual harassment and extortion. As we speak, a notorious one is on ground and the person will not go scout free. “Some of the cases are still in court. I swore to run an institution that can stand the test of time. We are doing the best to bring sanity to the institution”, he added. Meanwhile, the university is set to award first class degrees to 41 deserving students during its 4th and 5th combined convocation ceremony. The VC who used the briefing to intimate the general public, added that, a total of 2,000 graduates comprising 920 and 1,080 graduates for the 2016/2017 and 2017/2018 graduating year respectively would convoke. Prof Ibanga explained that, since the last convocation, the university has added two new faculties to the existing six, adding that, the institution would begin 69 postgraduate programmes across 6 faculties in the 2019/2020 session. According to him, the admission quota of the university which is currently 2,399 has been filled, noting that, the university has staff strength of 439 academic staff comprising 605 senior and 398 junior staff respectively, adding that 38 out of 39 programmes in the institution have full accreditation. “Since the last convocation, the faculties have increased from six to eight. The Faculty of Social and Management Sciences became the Faculty of Management Sciences and the Faculty of Social Sciences while the former Faculty of Natural and Applied Sciences has been split into two Faculties, namely: Faculty of Biological Sciences and
Faculty of Physical Sciences. “Beginning from the next session, 2019/2020 session precisely, this month of November, Akwa Ibom State University shall commence post-graduate programmes in sixty nine of its academic programmes spanning across six of the eight faculties”, he stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .