 Ekiti State University  There is palpable tension in Ekiti State University (EKSU), Ado-Ekiti, over alleged plan by the management of the institution to sack about 500 members of staff. The affected workers, according to a source, who spoke with The Guardian on condition of anonymity, said that those that would be mostly affected by the planned retrenchment were those employed by the immediate past Vice Chancellor, Prof Samuel Oye Bandele, during his tenure. It was also learnt that some professors, who were promoted during the same period, might be demoted to lower cadre over allegation that academic due process was not strictly adhered to in their elevations. Besides, another source said that the management complained that it inherited an over-bloated workforce, which necessitated the planned downsizing of workers to reduce the overhead cost. “I can confirm to you that the names of the affected members of staff have been compiled and letters of termination of the affected members of staff will soon be issued to them. The management said it was because of complaints that the university was over-staffed. “We have been notified and anytime from now, the letters of disengagement will be distributed and this has been creating panic and tension in the university,” the source said. It was also further learnt that some lecturers, who circumvented academic process to earn their professorial titles and other positions, would be demoted. The Academics Staff Union of Universities, EKSU Chapter, had in September threatened to embark on strike owing to management’s inability to pay their salaries and other benefits. The ASUU Chairman, Dr. Kayode Arogundade, had disclosed that the monthly wage bill of the university had increased from N380 million to over N502 million, while the monthly subvention from government stood at N260 million, leaving the university to grapple hard to make up for the N262 million shortfall internally. Meanwhile, the EKSU’s Public Relations Officer, Mr. Bode Olofinmuagun, while debunking the allegation, said he was not aware of such development. “The management has no plan to sack or demote any worker. “There is no tension on campus over sack issue. I am on  campus as I speak with you. The university is peaceful and I am not aware of any such plan,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .