Players from within and outside Lagos had the time of their lives at the weekend when the best among them fought for glory at the Eighth Southern Sun Ikoyi Golf Tournament held on the luxurious course of the Lakowe Lakes and Gold Resorts. But Abiodun Sanni has promised more good times for the players in future competitions. Adewemimo Sumonu won the men’s category of the competition, while Funke Majekodunmi came tops in the ladies’ category. The stable ford styled tournament kept the fans cheering as the golfers displayed spectacular show of competitiveness and sportsmanship throughout the tournament that had about 70 players in attendance. Thrilled by the open show of excitement by their guests and golf lovers at the end of the competition, Sanni, who is Globacom’s Head, Enterprise Corporate, Lagos, said the outcome of the event had justified his company’s decision to partner with Southern Sun Ikoyi in sponsoring the tournament. He added: “I congratulate Southern Sun for a successful competition; and for all our customers, this is to show that we will always be there for them. “We are for the good of Nigerians and the world at large and we are glad to be associated with this event. “It is quite good that we are investing in charity. We have done a lot in sports and entertainment and we always look for ways we can give back to the society. “What we are doing here today is in line with our strategy to be part of the society and make life easier for our people.” He promised that Globacom would look for ways to make the next edition more exciting for players and golf fans. Earlier, General Manager, Southern Sun, Mark Loxley had commended the athletes, sponsors, guests and the media for taking out time to participate at this year’s edition of the tournament despite the long drive and their busy schedules, whilst reiterating the hotel’s continued commitment to promoting golf as a sporting activity within Lagos’s thriving business community. As the event came to a close, guests and participants were gifted with various specials including weekend stays and complementary dining opportunities at Southern Sun Ikoyi, Cases of premium wines, prepaid routers and Mifis, courtesy of Globacom, business and economy class tickets to various international travel destinations amongst other exciting giveaways. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .