The Nigerian Army, 4 Brigade, Benin on Monday held a training exercise for all security agencies participating in the exercise crocodile smile IV which commenced last Friday. In his opening remarks at the training, Brig.-Gen Greg Omorogbe, the Brigade Commander said the training was the high point of training activities for the exercise. Omorogbe said that the training was meant to serve as avenue for Inter-Agency collaboration with a view to promoting effective working relationship among the various security agencies in the state. He noted that the ever-increasing contemporary security challenges such as kidnapping, armed robbery, drug peddling, banditry and cultism have further necessitated the need for synergy among security operatives. He added that the theme for the training “Inter-Agency Cooperation: Imperative for Efficient Joint Operation” and the lecture topic “Enhancing Inter-Agency Cooperation in Aid of Civil Authority: A Way Forward was apt. The Brigade Commander said that the lecture was designed to bring participants to be on the same page to enable everyone to understand their role during the conduct of the exercise. He also said that the training would provide participants with the requisite knowledge to effectively discharge their constitutional roles in aid to civil authority, thereby enhancing Inter-Agency Cooperation and synergy. “It is imperative to state that the peculiar contemporary security environment in Edo required the combined efforts of all security agencies as no organisation could successfully work in isolation without the support of others. “The overall goal of security agencies present here is to ensure the safety of all law-abiding citizens and protection of lives and property in the state,” Omorogbe said. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the lecture “Enhancing Inter-Agency Cooperation in Aid of Civil Authority: Way Forward” was delivered by Brig.-Gen Joseph Komolafe (rtd).  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .