Ogun State government has cancelled the monthly sanitation exercise for November 2019 in the state billed to hold today.It also lifted the restriction of movement order.
 
This, Governor Dapo Abiodun said, would enable students across the state to take part in the National Examination Council (NECO) examinations.A statement made available by the chief press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, disclosed that the decision was arrived at after review of the challenges the restriction of movement would have on the Mathematics paper in the NECO exams schedule for today. “It has become expedient that the interest of the students be considered. Mathematics is a general subject and we need to facilitate hitch-free preparation and movement of students, teachers and NECO officials and examiners to various centres where the exams would hold within and outside the state,” the statement said. Abiodun, however, implored all citizens to ensure that the cleaning exercise was observed at their various houses during the period of the exercise.
Meanwhile, as the Head of Service (HoS) in the state, Lanre Bisiriyu, takes a bow from the state civil service next week, Governor Abiodun has promised to inaugurate a new one “to continue on the right path of leadership for the State public service.” He also said he would emplace a committee to work out modalities for the implementation of the new minimum wage and substantial increase in the wages of the state workers.He made these declarations on Thursday at a public lecture to mark this year’s Public Service Day celebration held at Cultural Centre, Kuto, Abeokuta. Abiodun, who lauded the public, servants noted that in taking the state to a higher pedestal, the welfare of workers would continue to receive prompt attention as they are “worthy partners” in his overall development agenda for the State. In another vein, the governor on Thursday visited the people of Ibefun in Odogbolu Council, who were affected by rainstorm, promising that his administration would respond adequately to any form of disaster in any part of the state to ensure that those affected do not suffer unnecessarily.He made the promise while inspecting damaged buildings and public facilities caused by the recent rainstorm in the area. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .