Yobe state Governor, Mai Mala Buni has restated readiness to resettle thousands of Boko haram devastated communities already displaced from their ancestral home. Besides, Governor Bunni disclosed that his administration is set to reintegrate 400,000 Out-of-School children in the state into Tsangaya model schools for Quranic and western education. Governor Buni spoke at the opening of a two-day executive retreat organized for Yobe state Commissioner designates in Kano. He revealed that recovering from the depth of insurgency devastation, Yobe government is partnering with the federal government and international donor agencies to rebuild destroyed homes in the state. The former APC national secretary posited that his action plan on agriculture and resuscitation of moribund industries will generate over 5,000 jobs for teeming youths and attract investment opportunities in the state. On education, the Governor reminded, his administration has set up an expert technical committee on the revitalization of basic and secondary education as well as ensuring that only qualified teachers stand in front of the classroom to teach children. “We strongly believe that it is important that we make education our number one priority in the state. As our first order of business, therefore, we began taking the steps necessary to revitalize our education sector and provide the best possible opportunities for our people to have access to qualitative education,” Buni said. “I am glad to inform you that we have already began to implement the recommendations of the Interim Report submitted by the Committee. I have approved for the establishment of a teacher training and curriculum development center. I have also approved for the establishment of three Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) education schools, one in each of our three senatorial districts.” “Distinguished ladies and gentlemen, it would interest you to note that the expert technical committee for the revitalization of basic and secondary education has also identified well over 400, 000 out of school children in the state. I strongly believe that this is an issue that requires urgent attention through the integration of the Tsangaya/Qur’anic school system with the formal education system in the state.” He said Yobe Government has demonstrated commitment to empowerment and human capital development through training especially in paint production to over 500 youths across the state. Buni said the state is partnering with Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC) to construct Transit Park in Potiskum, the park when completed, is projected to provide not less than 5000 jobs for the people. He urged the new Commissioners to be guided and abide by the values of honesty, dedication, a sense of duty, and a sense of integrity. “I want you to remember that this administration rode to power on the crest of the support of the people who believed that their votes would translate into practical improvement in their living conditions. We must deliver on that. We must make our people proud of the choices they made during the election and even prouder of the administration they have in place in the state. “As politicians, we should also strengthen people’s confidence in government by keeping our doors open and by maintaining regular contacts with the people at the grassroots. I am confident that, together, we would write a new chapter in the development of our state by working harder than ever to justify the confidence that the people have reposed in us. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .