 Gbenga Sogbaike  The #YTech100 is a yearly list compiled by The Future Project to recognize 100 of the brightest and best Nigerian tech entrepreneurs, professionals and stakeholders for their outstanding work in the Nigerian tech space.#YTech100 honours the best young Nigerians in the tech space, thus unleashing their potentials for more creativity to push the boundary of tech in Nigeria. “I’m pleased to have been shortlisted as an honouree of the #YTech 100 for the year 2019. It is indeed an honour and I am glad our amazing strides at Plaqad.com are getting well-deserved recognition. This award will only serve to encourage us to continue to contribute to the development of the tech industry in Nigeria.” “I also want to commend the team at the Future Project for celebrating young Africans who work relentlessly to transform their society and economy by retelling the African narrative”. Sogbaike is a seasoned marketing communication professional with expertise in advertising, public relations, influencer marketing, content development and media buying. He began his communications career as a writer. With a burning passion for entrepreneurship, Gbenga founded a digital content company Time&Ink in 2015. In 2018, Time&Ink was rested after a merger with Plaqad with Gbenga assuming the position of Chief Operating Officer at Plaqad Limited. In two years, Plaqad has grown to become Nigeria’s largest influencer marketing platform with over thousands of social media influencers, content creators and publishers. Today, Plaqad sits at the intersection of media, marketing and technology and heavily leverages new media technology to evangelize brands. “Owing to our digital-first, platform-model orientation as well as a strong community of influencers, content creators, publishers and other marketing service providers, Plaqad is able to help brands connect to their target audiences in a more measurable, effective and affordable way and unlock value on multiple levels for brands” remarked Sogbaike in a recent newspaper interview.Since its launch in 2017, Plaqad through its impressive showing in the influencer marketing and media space has quickly become one of the biggest hubs for content creators, publishers, and social media influencers, with thousands of users currently signed up on its platform.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .