The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) in Cross River State has condemned the omission of some workers’ names from the state payroll. The workers, numbering over 1,700, took to the streets of Calabar recently asking the state government to normalise the situation, which they claimed had brought untold hardship to them. Also yesterday, a delegation of science teachers who also claimed to be affected by the alleged omission of their names from the salary payroll, returned in protest to the governor’s office, disrupting movement in and out of the premises. They warned that if by next week Tuesday, no positive response is got by way of the expected reinstatement and payment of their salaries, they will all return with their mattresses and occupy the governor’s office with their family members until they are paid. The state NLC Chairman, Benedict Ukpepi, said the situation was “sympathetic, painful and touching” even as NLC and the Trade Union Congress (TUC) in the state have scheduled a meeting to discuss and take a position over the matter. He said: “After the payment of the September salary, we discovered that some of the names were removed. On enquiring, I was told that they are trying to sanitise the payroll. “In a bid to sanitise the payroll, the Special Adviser to the Governor on Payroll had to bring out names from the year 2015 to know when and how they got into the payroll and who authorised the names into the payroll. That’s why some of the names are hanging now. “The organised labour, NLC and TUC, will be having a joint meeting to take a position on the issue because families are affected. The situation is quite sympathetic and touching. “What we wanted is for the governor to countersign or revalidate those names which he agreed. The names were compiled in sets and they are over 1,400. We are now waiting for His Excellency to endorse it so that the names will go back to the payroll. The governor has not sacked anyone. As I speak with you, the files are waiting for him.” The NLC boss stated that “it is sympathetic, painful and touching, especially at this time that children are returning back to school that it happened to some family members. I am sure that all genuine and legitimate workers will return back to the payroll.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .