Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike has expressed pessimism that the menace of kidnapping would never be eradicated due to its commercialisation in the country.The governor said the recent kidnap of judges across the country should serve as a wake-up call to all stakeholders to come together and tackle the scourge. He stated this yesterday during a courtesy visit by Rotary District Governor 9141 Nigeria to the Government House, Port Harcourt. Wike said since kidnapping had now become a major business for criminals, the social vice could only be reduced to the barest minimum.“It is now impossible to stop kidnapping in Nigeria. It is now a major business. It has been commercialised. Everyone must partner with the government to ensure that we reduce it to the barest minimum. But it cannot be totally eradicated,” he said. The Rivers State governor, who said that those involved in kidnapping from security reports range between 16 and 22 years, urged Rotary Nigeria to embark on enlightenment programme to educate the youths on the dangers of cultism and kidnapping.“Look at what is happening across the country. Kidnapping has taken over all states. When it started here, it was politicised.  But today, it is negatively affecting all states of the federation.  Few days ago, a Court of Appeal judge was kidnapped in Benin. Before that, a Federal High Court judge was kidnapped.  All of us must work together to stop this scourge,” he said. Wike, therefore, implored everyone to be conscious of their environment and take measures to secure themselves since kidnappers use close workers, family members and associates as informants.He lauded Rotary Nigeria for its contributions to the development of Rivers State and assured that Rivers State government would continue to partner with them to achieve developmental goals.He also said that the state government would continue to invest in the security of lives and property, health, education and vital social services. However, the District Governor of Rotary International District 9141, Nze Anizor, lauded Wike for his contribution to the development of the state. He congratulated the Rivers State Governor on his re-election, saying that it is an opportunity for him to do more for Rivers people.
Anizor, who disclosed that the Rotary International District 9141 invests about N300 million into several humanitarian projects in Rivers State every year, said: “Rotary is more inclined to service rather than complaints. Rotary International is a great partner of government towards development.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .