 Ogun governor Dapo Abiodun. Photo: TWITTER/DABIODUNMFR  Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun has urged Nigerians to imbibe the virtues of honesty, love of one’s neighbour and unity that Prophet Mohammed embodied in his lifetime. Abiodun, who gave the charge in his Eid-el-Maulud message yesterday, said unity and peace more than anything else should be the major concern of all Muslims at the point in the nation’s history. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, the governor said: “I would like to appeal to all our brothers and sisters across all faiths to make the necessary sacrifices to sustain the country’s unity and peace.“We all need to imbibe the spirit of forgiveness, love and respect for one another, which Prophet Mohammed espoused throughout his 63 years on earth. “To this end, I urge you to be modest in the celebrations, exchange gifts and visits to homes of friends and associates.” The governor admonished Muslim faithful that the festive period gives room for socialisation and integration among the diverse ethnic and religious groups in the nation. Abiodun further advised the rich to reach out to the poor so that the gap between ‘the haves’ and the ‘have nots’ can be minimised. He, therefore, advised Nigerians to come together and address the issues causing insecurity, intolerance, corruption and where no one will be treated as a second-class citizen in his or her country. Meanwhile, the governor at the weekend reassured the people of the state that his administration remains irrevocably committed to providing a viable economy for the state and the individual prosperity of its people irrespective of their gender, status, location and religious affiliation.He said this at the installation and turbaning ceremony of the 11th Chief Imam of Ijebuland, Alhaji Muftahudeen Gbadegesin Ayanbadejo, in Ijebu-Ode.He said that the people of the state would always have a place in its building our future together agenda of his administration. Abiodun noted that leadership had always been an important concept in Islam, saying that it is only God that chooses who he wants to lead the people.“For us as a government, we are committed to providing a viable economy for Ogun State and the individual prosperity of our people, irrespective of their gender, status, location and religious affiliation.“In fact, the place of the people in our administration’s building our future together agenda is not negotiable. Meanwhile, as part of efforts to revamp the education sector in the state, Ogun State government has commenced recruitment of 1,500 teachers to fill existing vacancies in public schools.A statement by the chief press secretary to the governor said that the state government had started analysing the profiles of the would-be teachers. The statement also stated that qualified candidates would be notified this week through Short Message Service (SMS) on the phone numbers submitted via the job portal, jobs.ogunstate.gov.ng. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .