Principal, Rainbow College Boarding, Mr. Adesina Olugbenga Okunubi (left); PTA Vice Chairman, Mr. Agbebaku; Pastor Dickson Anyanwu; Chairman of Occasion, Mr. Albert Mabuyaku, and Mrs. Jumoke Babarinsa, at the presentation of award to Mr. Mabuyaku…on Friday. Blue House at the weekend retained the Rainbow College Inter-House Sports Competition title by winning the 20th edition of the event held at the school’s sports complex in Asese, Maba, Ogun State. At a colourful ceremony watched by parents, guardians and friends, Blue House came first with 20 gold, 16 silver and 18 bronze medals, Red House came second with gold 17, silver 16 and bronze 10 medals, while Yellow House placed third with seven gold, five silver and seven. Green House finished fourth with five gold, 10 silver and bronze 16 medals. Red House won the march past event, followed by Blue House in second position, Yellow House in third and Green House in the fourth position. Iheaku Jordan and Oni Nifesimi were adjudged as the best male and female athletes of the competition respectively. The Chairman of Occasion, Mr. Albert Mabuyaku, admonished parents to encourage their wards to take part in sports in order to live a healthy life and for future benefits. “Sports encourages sportsmanship, which tomorrow helps to build up networking, connecting and encouraging positive and healthy competition among ourselves, which of course is very good if you want to be successful in life. “Like the saying goes, if you want to go very fast, you go alone, but if you want to go very far, you need to go with others. Sports also helps to support and provide all our daily energy needed to execute various daily tasks no matter where we find ourselves. Today is school and tomorrow is outside,” he said. The school’s principal, Mr. Adesina Olugbenga Okunubi, said, “Education is not just about school work; the curricular is broadened to include other activities like body improvement and growth for the children otherwise students will just be learning and not developed. We have a rounded education in Rainbow College and it involves physical activities and sports.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .