• Buni orders probe of Damaturu accident The Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) has confirmed six persons dead in Bauchi State road accident at Sabuwar Gwaram along Bauchi-Alkaleri at the weekend. Head of Operations of the FRSC in Bauchi Sector Command, Deputy Corps Commander Ibrahim Abubakar, who confirmed this to newsmen yesterday, said two vehicles, Toyota Camry and a Volkswagen Golf Car were involved in the accident. “The accident, which occurred last Saturday at about 10.55 a.m. at Sabuwar Gwaram along Alkaleri-Bauchi road, involved two vehicles. The two vehicles are a Toyota Camry with number plate AT 401 JJN and a Volkswagen Golf Car with number plate AB 776 AKK,” he said. Abubakar, who stated that the accident was caused by excessive speeding, said that the driver of the Volkswagen Golf car in the process of trying to avoid a pothole, lost control and had a head-on collision with the other Toyota Camry car. “We got a call and our men rushed to the scene of the accident and evacuated the victims to the hospital. Six people in the two vehicles, two females and four males, were confirmed death by a medical doctor.“I call on motorists to be more careful on the road and observe traffic regulations. They should avoid excessive speeding, which is a major cause on accidents on the highways. “This call is very important, especially at this period of the ember months where there is a high volume of vehicles on the highways. If they do this, road traffic crashes, which lead to loss of lives and property, will be reduced to the barest minimum,” he stated. In another vein, Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State has ordered the investigation of killing of two persons in an accident involving an Army patrol vehicle in Damaturu, the state capital.He gave the directive after the Brigade Commander, 27 Task Force Brigade, the Commanding Officer, 233 Tank Battalion and government officials visited to commiserate with families of deceased persons. The order was to have a full investigation and ascertain cause of accident and prevent further occurrences.The incident occurred at the weekend when a tricycle rider with passengers was crushed by a military patrol vehicle in Damaturu, killing two persons, including a toddler. Director-General for Press Affairs to the Governor, Abdullahi Bego, yesterday in a statement said: “His Excellency has learnt that one of the victims, Hussaina Baffa Bello, was a pre-ND student of the Federal Polytechnic, Damaturu, while the other victim was a toddler. “Governor Buni’s thoughts, sympathies and prayers are with the families of those who lost their lives and with the victims who sustained injuries.“The governor prays God to grant repose to the souls of those who died, fast recovery to those who sustained injuries and fortitude to bear the loss for families of the victims.”According to him, the governor also directed the state Ministry of Health and the Hospitals Management Board to treat the injured persons free of charge.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .