 Executive Secretary of the NCDMB, Simbi Wabote  The Executive Secretary of the board, Simbi Wabote, said ignorance of the Act remains a big challenge to contractors who often expressed reservations of the Act compliance as it is hampering ease running of their businesses. The NCDMB boss stated this yesterday in Port Harcourt during the regulatory compliance workshop for Nigerian oil and gas contractors organised by the Nigerian Agip Oil Company (NOAC). At the gathering where over 150 contractors were being trained, not up to 20 persons admitted to have read the Act. Wabote, represented by Mr. Paul Zuhulumben, however, urged the contractors and the public to go to the website of the board to upload, read and understand the Act to further strengthen their capacities, create more opportunities and contribute appreciably to the economy. He said: “As we all know, developing local capacities and capabilities is a core mandate of the (NOGICD) Act of 2010 hence organising workshops like this agrees with the intent of the NOGICD Act.” He described the workshop as a domiciliation of value-adding activities, which according to him, is one of the key objectives of the board. While commending the management of NAOC for their commitment and consistency in organising yearly capacity development workshops, Wabote reiterated: “NCDMB commenced the implementation of a 10-year strategic roadmap in 2018. The roadmap is hinged on five strategic pillars and four enablers for achieving the laudable goal of increasing Nigerian Content level in the oil and gas industry to 70 per cent by the year 2027.” Speaking also, the Vice Chairman of NAOC, Mr. Lorenzo Fiorillo, said the training was aimed at assisting the Federal Government in achieving the noble objectives of NOGICD Act 2010, and as well developing the capacity of Nigerian-owned companies to actively participate, on a sustainable basis, in the oil and gas industry. Fiorillo, represented by the General Manager, NAOC, Alessandro Tiani, stressed that the move would address gaps in various competencies for business growth and sustainability in the oil and gas industry. According to him: “This year’s workshop is particularly designed to re-educate the contractors on the provisions of the NOGCD Act, 2010 to raise their level of compliance with its provisions as well as empower and further enhance their capacity to favourably bid and execute projects in the industry and beyond.” “We have, therefore, invited custodians and the agency solely charged with the implementation of the Act – NCDMB, to expertly and diligently take the companies through the various key aspects of the Act and accompanying regulations and issues” Similarly, the General Manager, External Relations, Oando, Mr. Adeyem Oyeagba, said the wealth of knowledge shared at the workshop on the importance of regulatory and compliance of the Act would ensure ease of running a business. “The impact of this workshop, if properly harnessed, will position our local contractors for building capacity, as well as provide entrepreneurial development and mentoring opportunities that will position them for growth,” he stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .