For for the release of the leader of the Coalition for Revolution (CORE) and publisher of SaharaReporters, Omoyele Sowore, and his co-defender Olawale Bakare; social activist, Deji Adeyanju of the Concerned Nigerians; and the Coordinator, TakeitBack Campus Unit, Sanyaolu Juwon, will, tomorrow, lead other Nigerians to the headquarters of the Department of State Services (DSS). Last Friday, the DSS said it had received a court judgement for the release of Sowore, but that no one had come for him. Same day, Adeyanju announced that he was ready to take the delivery of Sowore the next day, November 9. Although, Sowore’s chief counsel, Femi Falana (SAN), disputed the DSS claim, several other members of his legal team and friends stormed the agency’s headquarters yesterday morning, confident of taking him home at last, having perfected his bail condition. But last Saturday, the DSS shunned lawyers, associates and friends of Sowore who had gathered at its headquarters in Abuja to fetch him home. Adeyanju said, “For the umpteenth time, the DSS has failed to release Mr. Omoyele Sowore and Olawale Bakare despite two valid court orders served on them to do so. “Despite the embarrassing and unprofessional statement credited to the DSS, Nigerians, comprising activists, lawyers, families, friends and other citizens came out on Saturday morning to receive the duo. As expected but quite unfortunate, the DSS yet again failed to release them, under the excuse that we came on a weekend. “Consequently, we wish to inform the general public that we will once again be present at the DSS headquarters on Tuesday, November 12, 2019 to receive both Sowore and Bakare. The government should be held responsible should anything happen to the duo. It should be noted that Sowore since two days ago has been on hunger strike; he has refused to take anything, not even water; protesting the violation of his rights by the Buhari government. The world is watching.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .