Academic Staff Union of Polytechnic, (ASUP), Kano State Polytechnic, yesterday accused Kano state government of illegal occupation of the Polytechnic land. Besides, the academic union issued seven days ultimatum, for the government to vacate the said property, otherwise, the lecturers will embark on warning strike action to demand the rightful possession of the land. Rising from an emergency congress meeting held at the School of technology, Matan Fada Road campus of the Polytechnic, ASUP accused the government of forceful and illegal hijack of 65.73 hectares of land at Bagadawa Town, Bichi road in Dawakin Tofa local government area, the land they said belongs to the institution. In a communique, jointly signed by ASUP Chairman Dr. Ahmad Zubair Chedi and his general secretary Kabir Dalha Kabir and made available to journalists, ASUP warned that legal action against the government will also be instituted to reclaim the school’s property. “We review the news of the land encroachment by Kano state government at the congress and based on the mandate of the congress, we held peaceful protest and press conference on Nov. 8th, 2019, to drive home our plea,” the union said. ” We regretted that as we speak, work had already started on this land with erection of a barricade wall between the KSP and Aminu Kano College of Islamic and Legal Studies as well as on the offer given by the government,( which a 65.73 hectares of land) at Bagadawa Town, Bichi road, Dawakin Tofa local government area of Kano state. ” Base on this and other issues deliberated upon, the congress resolves to issue a letter of seven days ultimatum to the government after which the union will proceed on seven days warning strike if no positive response is received. Legal action will also be taken against the government on the issue.” The academic staff of Kano poly through the communique, also lamented the lingering issue of promotion stagnant and refusal of the school management to implement the NBTE 2013 scheme of service. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .