The youngest Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Muyinwa Atoyebi said the Nigerian legal profession is leading in Africa and possesses bright minds that could be global leaders.Atoyebi said this during the ESQ Nigerian Legal Awards (ESQ NLA), which took place at Landmark Event Centre in Victoria Island, Lagos at the weekend. The organiser of the event, Mr. Lere Fashola also tasked lawyers not to overlook the role of new wigs, stating that with proper grooming, training and mentorship which includes practising the right work ethics, they can aspire and certainly reach the peak of the profession.Fashola said the young lawyers would dictate the prosperity of the legal profession in the nearest future. “It is for this reason that ESQ is building the first professional co-work station for lawyers. The station will be a hub for cutting edge to continue legal education and innovative legal practice.“The young lawyers are the future of the legal profession in Nigeria and they must join the moving train. We acknowledge that our future is already being shaped by extraordinary young persons and tonight, we shall be celebrating the biggest and the best players in the legal profession; the law firms, the leaders and the icons,” he said prior to the award. Several awards were presented to deserving individuals and firms during the ceremony, amongst them were African Business Award won by Independent Non-Executive Director of FBN Holdings Plc, Cecilia Akintomide; Private Equity Team of the year, the New Practise; Global Business Icon of the year, Doc. Sandie Okoro; Shipping and Transport Inn House team of the year, Lagos state Bus Service; Telecommunication Inn House of the year, 9mobile; Legal Technology Firm of the year, Law Pavillion; Attorney General of the year, Commissioner for Justice, Prof. Yinka Omorogbe  Business Lawyer of the Year, Olumide Apata; Infrastructure Inn House team of the year, Dangote group, Intellectual Property team of the year, Jackson, Etti & Edu firm, while the Law Firm of the year went to Aluko & Oyebode.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .