Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu has described the demise of the former Minister of Information, Alex Akinyele, as a personal loss and great loss to the nation at large. This is contained in a statement made available to journalists yesterday by the Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Donald Ojogo. Akeredolu, who received the shocking news early yesterday, expressed his heartfelt condolences to the immediate family and the people of the state over the demise of the former Information Minister. According to him, “Akinyele was a man of many parts who made sound and meaningful impacts in his active days of service to the nation. His highly tasteful social life never diminished his love for the Yoruba culture; it rather attracted and exported admiration. Ours is to pray for the repose of his soul. Aside being a respected Nigerian elder and opinion leader of Ondo State, the late Aleco is a proud product of the Great Ife, the nation’s pride and excellence.” Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, described the death of Akinyele as “a monumental loss.” In a statement issued in Abuja, yesterday, and signed by Segun Adeyemi, Special Assistant to the President (Media), Mohammed expressed deep shock and sadness, describing him as an astute administrator and a highly respected public relations practitioner. He prayed to God for the repose of Akinyele’s soul and for strength and comfort for his family. Also, former Chief Press Secretary to the late Bola Ige and Agba Akin Olubadan of Ibadan land, Oloye Lekan Alabi and the Oyo State Chapter of the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR) mourned Akinyele’s demise and prayed for the repose of his soul. Oyo State Chapter of NIPR through its General Secretary, Adesegun Adetola said Akinyele was one of the few PR Professionals that brought recognition and dignity to the profession in Nigeria and lived his life in accordance with the PR ethics till his demise. Veteran broadcaster and former Nigerian Ambassador to the Philippines, Yemi Farounbi said as the Director of Public Relations of the Nigerian Customs Service, Akinyele gave a bright human face to the service. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .