 Seyi Makinde of Oyo State. Photo: TWITTER/SEYIMAKINDE  Besides, he said previous budget performances in the state hovered between 35 and 37 per cent, which according to him, is a failure. The governor, while declaring open the stakeholders’ consultative meeting on the year 2020 budget yesterday at Theophilus Ogunlesi Hall, University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan, said the contributions of the residents would make the strategic plan realistic and people-centered. The engagement, which was for the nine local councils in Oyo South Senatorial District, would be done in the remaining districts of Oyo Central and North. It is to get the input and capture the needs of the residents in the proposed 2020 budget. “We are setting a target that is realistic. We are not doing political budgeting. For us, we come to you that this is what we have. Can we use what we have to do what we want? “Budget performances have always been between 35 and 37 per cent. That is a failure. “The last time Oyo State did this was in 2012. After they did in 2012, they got tired. We thank God for giving us strength. If the citizens are contributing, we will not get tired. Your feedback and views will be given consideration. “We have set a 20-year strategic plan. Your contribution will make our plan to be people-centered,” the governor said. “We must harness the potential of all parts of the state. We have increased our internally-generated revenue by N400 million within four months. N4 billion is our target revenue in four years. We are not increasing taxes but we will plug leakages,” the governor said. Earlier, Commissioner for Budget and Economic Planning, Adeniyi Farinto, said the engagement was in line with the objective of the government to run an all-inclusive government that will move the people from poverty to prosperity. Also, Special Adviser to the Governor on Economic Affairs, Dr. Adetunji Babatunde, said the meeting was in line with the global best practices. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .