Idahams Less than a week ago, the internet went abuzz after disc jockey, DJ Cuppy stated that she refrains from conducting cash giveaways on social media because it is almost equivalent to paying people to become your fans. Expectedly, much of the reaction that trailed her submission were vicious but Cuppy’s stand holds a deep meaning that is rooted in the sad reality of Nigeria. Nigeria is currently ranked the poverty capital of the world and the practicality of this demeaning position plays out every day on social media, perhaps, now more than ever. As a result of the degree of lack that exists in the society, conducting giveaways of all sorts ranging from cash to mobile top up vouchers have become the easiest way to go from oblivion to recognition in the virtual social space. Young people clamour behind, and become advocates of any individual that carries out the most exciting giveaways on the internet. The desire of the average Nigerian is to transcend lack and this is the theme that Idahams builds his upcoming single around. The singer began teasing the song two weeks ago, through an outreach that saw him give out food items to students at the University of Lagos.   New single coming #BillonDollar. It is representative of my aspirations and your aspirations. It is our SONG! Nov. 8 A post shared by  Idahams (@officialidahams) on Nov 1, 2019 at 8:07am PDT  As cited by Idahams through a compelling video that offered details about the record aptly titled Billion Dollar, the song represents the aspiration of everyday Nigerians. “Just like you, I have a strong desire to attain wealth and become a blessing to my family, my friends and my world. This is what the song is about,” he explained. Idahams Furthermore, the singer noted that his resort, is to serve as a symbol of hope whilst embarking on his own journey to attain the highest degree of success possible. The rollout is without a doubt thoughtful and perhaps more importantly, needful. The new single, Billion Dollar is slated for a Friday, November 8 release.