Wants NNPC to meet OML II communities Egi Kingdom in Ogba/Egbema/Ndoni Council of Rivers State has called for a clean environmental sustainability policy in the area to afford the people a healthier life. Former Special Adviser to the Governor, Shedrack Akolokwu, who hails from area, said the long years of oil exploration in Egi affected the environment, causing the people serious pains and health challenges, adding that their lands had not been the same since oil exploration started in 1958.He, therefore, called on government and oil companies to support the move by Total Exploration and Production Nigeria (TEPNG) to restore the environment. Akolokwu made the call during Egi Kingdom coronation at Erema Community on some TEPENG workers and others at the weekend. “Long years of oil exploration in Egi Kingdom affected the environment. We used to have beautiful and healthy environment, but now we have none,” he lamented.He commended Total for creating environment-friendly policies. In another development, the Ogoni people have called on President Muhammadu Buhari to direct the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, and the Group Managing Director (GMD) of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mele Kyari, to visit Ogoniland and discuss with the people on the way forward on OML 11 re-entry. The resolution was reached at the weekend during the Ogoni General Assembly. Spokesman of the Assembly, Gani Topba, urged the president, the minister and the NNPC boss not to receive any delegation from Ogoni on the OML-11 re-entry on whatsoever capacity, outside the representatives of Ogoni General Assembly. Topba warned that failure to adhere to the Assembly’s advice might cause further crisis in Ogoni. His words, “The purported templates by the leadership of the Movement for the Survival of Ogoni People (MOSOP), Kagote and other self-acclaimed leaders of Ogoni for taking Ogoni oil are not acceptable. The only document we can work with is the Ogoni Bill of Rights (OBR). “The government of Nigeria and the international community should not recognise the templates, which are null and void. We pass vote of no confidence in the self-acclaimed presidents of MOSOP, Legborsi Pyagbara; and Kagote, Peter Medee; as well as others who do not care for Ogoni people.” He urged the errant youths of Ogoni to drop their arms and embrace peace, adding that there was no place to keep arms in Ogoniland. Meanwhile the traditional ruler of Egi, Prof. Uzondu Wokoma, has described the environment as sacred to the people.“Moments like this enable us to remember the past with nostalgia and dig into the archives. Our environment is very precious to us and we need to give it priory attention,” he said. Speaking also, the Deputy Manager, Deep Water District, Ahmad Kida, assured that the firm would continue to do its best to alleviate the pains of the Egi people.“We will do our best, evoke policies that will improve the conditions of Egi people,” he pledged.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .