Nigerians have been urged to embrace fitness by taking up more sporting activities in order to live a healthier lifestyle.The advice was give at the IESL Fitness Groove, organised by IESL Engineering, a foremost engineering outfit, which operates both locally and internationally. The one-day event kicked off with a 5km walk, jog and run designed to raise awareness on health issues such as diabetes and high blood pressure. It support the fight against the diseases. This is also in line with Do-no-harm to yourself and others initiative to be launched on the ANOH project and IESL Corporate Health Awareness. The activities kicked off from the company’s office in Victoria Island, Lagos, where participants defied the heavy rain to take part in the run and the games that were provided.There was also a dance competition aimed at using dance as a fun means to exercise and keep fit. Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of IESL Dr Diran Fawibe said he was excited with the level of enthusiasm displayed. “Everyone is happy and participating actively in this is a reflection of the cooperation and teamwork that exists between everyone, and we want to strengthen this going forward. We want to be healthy and this is the practical of the monthly health talks we hold. We want to make it a culture for all Nigerians. “Next edition will be bigger and better as we are going to incorporate more features. We will be going to an orphanage to support the less privileged. We didn’t only do this in Lagos but in Port Harcourt as well, which is a key area in our operations. We want more Nigerians to take up sports to keep fit and live healthier lives.” The General Manager Engineering, IESL, Bayo Ige, told The Guardian that they want to ensure that everyone understands the importance of fitness. “We did cancer screening, blood pressure checks, diabetes checks and so on. We want people to know we are caring and a part of the community. Some charities have sent us their request and we put money together to help them realize their heart desires. “Hopefully, we can continue this by getting more people involved and turning it into a statewide activity. We want fitness and good health to become a culture, not just amongst our staff, but in all Nigerians.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .