 Technical Director of the Sacked Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN), Sunday Adeleye. Photo: TWITTER/NIGERIAATHLETICS  Also affected was the AFN Secretary General, Elijah Ademu, who was removed from his post. A new scribe will be announced soon by the sports ministry. A statement from the ministry’s media department stated that Adeleye’s sack followed the report of the probe panel, which was set by the Sports Minister, Sunday Dare, following Team Nigeria’s poor performance in Doha. The panel submitted its reports to the minister last month. A letter addressed to AFN President, Shehu Gusau, directed him to in form Adeleye of his sack. The letter issued by the minister’s Special Assistant, Kola Daniel reads: “Consequent on the recommendation of the Advisory Committee, I am further directed to convey the directive of the Honourable Minister for the immediate removal from office of Mr. Sunday Adeleye as Technical Director of the AFN on account of ascertained Gross Misconduct. “Accordingly, you are directed to convey to Mr. Sunday Adeleye in writing this directive and evidence of compliance delivered to the Honourable Minister.” The Advisory Committee had in its report, according to the letter, indicted Adeleye in varying degrees in the handling of the Federation’s affairs in Doha. Among other issues, Adeleye was accused of glaring administrative lapses and violation of the rules and regulations of the IAAF, when he registered the duo of Blessing Okagbare and Divine Oduduru for the 100m events without their consent. A board member of the AFN told The Guardian yesterday that they would meet soon to pick a new Technical Director. The Guardian recalls that the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) summoned Adeleye a few days ago over his alleged role in the expenditure and retirement of money at the end of the 2017 Confederation of Africa Athletics Grand Prix/Warri Relay. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .