 NASFAT Zonal Missioner Lagos Zone Two, Alhaji Rasheed Ashamu (left); Zonal Secretary, Nob Lawal Olalekan; Chairman, Lagos zone Two, Alhaji Bashir Sholadoye and the guest lecturer, Dr. Abdul-Lateef Abdul Hakeem (Yepe) during the launch of NASFAT Zone Two Cemetery Project in Lagos.  The Modern Cemetery will contain all the necessary facilities to ensure that the dead get a befitting burial including a Mosque, parking lot, maximum security and where ritual bath (Janazah) can be performed. The Chief Missioner, Nasril-Lahi-L-Fatih Society, Alhaji Abdul-Azeez Onike, during the lunching ceremony of the cemetery, said Islam is a complete religion and no aspect of human life is left untouched noting that it is the duty of the living to give the dead a befitting burial. He urged Muslims to contribute towards the achievement of the project saying that burring a Muslim in an Islamic cemetery Islamic cemetery has lot of advantage, which include prayers from those who come for visitation without being relative of the dead.He commended Zone Two for commencing the initiative being the first zone of NASFAT who has embarked on the project. The Chairman of Cemetery Project Management Committee for Lagos Zone Two, Lawal Abdul Waliu Olalekan, said the idea of building an Islamic cemetery was necessitated due to the fact that Muslim community lack adequate modern cemetery. “This was a fall out from out from our retreat in 2016, we saw the need for us to have a place where we can bury our dead ones. We also recognize the hazard way of burring our dead ones in our homes, even in some cemetery that is not in line with the Islamic injunction. We felt that NASFAT as an Islamic society must bury their dead in line with Sharia and as Allah as commanded in the Holy Quran,” he said. He said due to NASFAT Zone Two geographical spread, the cemetery would be situated in three locations, which will include Ifo axis, Oko-Afo axis and Badagary. The Zonal Chairman NASFAT Lagos Zone Two, Alhaji Bashir Oyeyemi Sholadoye said the cemetery project is one of Zone two new idea and innovation.He added that the cemetery would be available for all Muslim adherents. “It is for Muslim generally what ever we do in NASFAT according to our vision and mission is for the widespread of enlightening Muslim so that we will all have a coherent and a place were we can rest permanently,”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .