The Delta Economic Summit Group (DESG) has recognised six persons as ‘Unsung Heroes’ for their leadership and philanthropic roles in five core areas of government’s concern and focus namely: youth, women and health development, education and humanitarian services. It explained that the deserving individuals were so honoured for transforming many lives, especially at the grassroots level. The Unsung Heroes award is an initiative of DESG, with the primary aim of recorginsing and encouraging individuals who contributing significantly to their local communities. This year’s award came with an undisclosed amount of money and several opportunities for the recipients namely: Mr. Elvis Akpobi (Youth Development); Miss Yovuata Uyoyou (Women Development), Mr. Henry Agwazim (Education); Rev. Mother Elechukwu Ifechukwuru (Humanitarian Services) and Dr. Ifeoma Jane Nnodim (Health Development). Speaking at the ceremony, Commissioner for Economic Planning, Dr. Barry Bae, stressed the need for sustainability of the event, saying the essence of the awards was to encourage individuals who have helped in economic development of the state without government’s patronage, as the state alone could not afford to meet the needs if its teeming population. “The effort made at the sustenance of this award is commendable, which goes to show commitments that are in partnership with progress. The award is targeted at people, groups and institutions, who sometimes are at the other side of society creating values and making useful contributions to economic development. “The DESG has chosen such persons for making meaningful contributions through this recognition.“The fact remains that government cannot do everything and as such partnerships like this are most welcome. I am reliably informed that recipients of the awards are individuals and organisations whose activities cuts across youth, women/ health developments, as well as education and humanitarian services.” “These are core areas of government’s concern and focus. It is worthy to note that the contributions of the awardees in these sectors have contributed to boosting the economic live in Delta State,” he said. Bae admonished the awardees that the result of hard work, is more work, hence they should see the award as a call for more service to the Delta State in particular, and society in general. He added that it was also a challenge to others to contribute their quota to the socio-economic development of the state, adding: “The Stronger Delta dream is a collective issue and we recorgnise the DESG as a worthy partner in this lofty dream.”He also assured of the DESG of his ministry’s continued support in their efforts to boost government’s development drive. Earlier in his welcome address, titled, “Our Heroes of Nigeria’s Future”, Director General of DESG, Chukwuka Monye, said, “At the maiden edition last year, I was astounded by what people had achieved on their own, which makes me to struggle in describing them as ‘ordinary people,’ because I do not think that their acts are ‘ordinary’ or common by any means.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .