Lagos State Government, yesterday, read the riot act to corrupt Community Development Associations (CDA) saying the state government would not condone any highhandedness and unruly acts against residents by executives. The Commissioner for Local Government and Community Affairs, Mrs. Yetunde Arobieke, gave the warning yesterday during a briefing to announce activities lined up for this year’s Community Day, with the theme, ‘Revisiting rural communities for 21st-century development’. She said the ministry has been inundated of some CDA’s going beyond their bounds in their engagement with members of their communities, including mismanaging resources in their care. According to her, the Sanwo-Olu led administration will not tolerate such acts, as it wants engagement with community members to be civil and transparent. The commissioner implored members of CDA’s who felt that their executive are not accountable to petition the ministry as the cases would be investigated for appropriate actions. She maintained that the ministry does not encourage extortion. The commissioner disclosed that in line with the administration plans to develop rural communities, effort is underway to transform riverine communities into Lagos tourism hubs. She said the commemoration of the Year 2019 Community Day was about celebrating the people at the grassroots for complementing government’s efforts in their communities through various self-help projects, promotion of peace and security and advising the State Government on matters affecting Community Development. “This Year Celebration will commence on Friday 8th November 2019 with Jumat Service at Central Mosque, Alausa, followed by a Health walk, which would start from Ikeja Local Government Secretariat to Lagos State Secretariat, Alausa-Ikeja. To empathise with the needy, she said social institutions would be visited with the grand finale at Police College Parade Ground, Oba Akinjobi Way, Ikeja. “Prizes will be presented to the CDAs that emerge as winners during the Project Assessment across the 20 LGAs and 37 LCDAs in the state by the members of the Assessment Committee”, she said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .