 Gboyega Isiaka. Photo: TWITTER/GBOYEGANISIAKA  He said himself and his larger political family, the Believe Movement, have “total confidence that the present administration in the state would take the state to a higher pedestal.” Isiaka, who spoke yesterday after leading his political movement on a visit to Governor Dapo Abiodun in his office at Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta, said with what is on the ground, the administration was moving in the right direction. He said: “I am not ADC. I only contested on the platform of the ADC. But I am a very strong member of the ADC. ADC has its national and state chairmen but I have come because I led a political movement into ADC some months ago, So, I have come here on the platform of that movement. “The majority of us are in ADC but we are not here to talk about the ADC because ADC has its own procedure of going about things. Let me assure you that positive things between the relationship of the Believe Movement and the All Progressives Congress (APC) will happen soon.” Those who came with the three-time governorship candidate are stalwarts of different opposition parties in the state. Among them is former state Chairman of the PDP, Chief Joju Fadairo; all the three ADC members in the state House of Assembly – Adegoke Olusesi Adeyanju (Egbado North I); Aruna Lawal (Egbado North II) and Jemili Akingbade (Imeko/Afon). The former gubernatorial candidate, who stated that their visit was to seek a way forward, said: “We came to see our governor as a way of moving our relationship forward. We had interactions with our people all over the state and they mandated us to come and talk with our governor. “All the areas that needed clarification, we have got them. So, we need to go back to them and within the next couple of days, the full outcome of this meeting would be made public. “We are very confident because the morning shows the night from what we have seen in five months. If we have not seen positive signs, we probably would not have graduated our relationship.” “I have come with the leadership of my political structure all across the state. This is to signify the fact that we are very confident and happy the way the government is going about putting the state on a greater scale.” The ADC chieftain noted that there are positive things happening between the Believe Movement and the state chapter of the APC, adding that it was not for him to say exactly what because his movement needed to report back to the people that sent them. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .