LAS VEGAS, NV ? SEPTEMBER 15: Singer Whitney Houston is seen performing on stage during the 2004 World Music Awards at the Thomas and Mack Center on September 15, 2004 in Las Vegas, Nevada. (Photo by Pascal Le Segretain/Getty Images) More details have emerged about the life of late singer, Whitney Houston who died in 2012. According to her longtime friend and confidant, Robyn Crawford, the singer’s ex-husband, Bobby Brown did not introduce her to drugs as she had a problem with cocaine long before Brown. During an appearance on “Dateline,” which was teased on “TODAY,” Crawford was asked by Craig Melvin when she first believed Houston had a problem. “”I would remind Whitney that, you know, we said doing coke couldn’t go where we’re going and we’re already there. So we shouldn’t be doing it,” said Crawford. “I’d notice that she would go ahead and do it. She was having difficulty stopping.” Crawford alleges of Whitney’s drug use. Melvin then brought up claims from the book that, despite public perception, Houston’s drug use began before she took up with Bobby Brown. “That’s true. She wasn’t doing it [drugs] regularly, but she would do it sometimes and might, you know — overdo it,” claimed Crawford. “But, you know, Bobby, he didn’t introduce her to cocaine, no.” Regarding Houston’s tumultuous marriage to Brown, Crawford said another man in Whitney’s life tried to talk her out of it. “She was more interested in Eddie Murphy, but he was elusive.,” she wrote in the book (via People), saying Houston “lost herself” trying to pursue the comedian. Whitney Houston and Bobby Brown The day of her wedding to Brown, Crawford claimed: “Eddie Murphy called to say she was making a mistake … but she pressed ahead.” In another interview excerpt that aired earlier this week, Crawford opened up more about their alleged relationship. “Our friendship was a deep friendship. In the early part of that friendship it was physical,” Crawford said, adding, “We were intimate on many levels, and all I can say is that it was very deep and we were very connected.” But the physical aspect stopped because “the music business was a world we were learning and we didn’t want anything to interfere with where she was going,” explained Robyn. When asked why she wanted to share her story now, Robyn offered: “I never envisioned speaking publicly about my life and then I asked myself the question of what would Whitney want. Would she understand the time is now.” This appearance is coming on the heels of Crawford recently claiming that she and Houston had a romantic relationship as widely speculated before the Grammy award-winning songstress’ death. In her new memoir “A Song For You: My Life With Whitney Houston,” Crawford also addresses Houston’s issues with drug dependency. Crawford’s memoir “A Song For You: My Life With Whitney Houston” is expected on shelves November 12.