Sodiq Taiwo and Rofiat Abdulazeez have won the men and women’s categories of the Prime Atlantic National Open Squash Senior and U-16 Championship, which ended at the Squash Section, Ikoyi Club 1938 at the weekend.
 
Taiwo defeated Kehinde Samuel in three straight sets of 11-6, 11-9 and 11-5 to emerge men’s champion, but there was a big upset in the women’s final, where the top-seeded player, Busayo Olatunji was beaten by Rofiat Abdulazeez 3-0 (11-6, 11-6 and 11- 5). Excited by her feat, Rofiat said hard work and determination took her to success. She called on the Nigeria Squash Federation (NSF) to keep exposing top players to international championships within and outside the country. In other categories, Favour Utukpe defeated Mistura Durosinlorun 3-0 to win the U-16 girls’ event, while
Fortune La’ah beat Dominion Utukpe to claim the boys’ title. The championship, according to the organisers, had over 50 players from across the country ion attendance. Speaking after the finals, Marketing and Communications Manager, Prime Atlantic, Aderonke Adebanjo said the oil and gas outfit decided to sponsor the championship to contribute its own quota in developing squash in Nigeria. “We are delighted that the players turn out en masse to take part in the Prime Atlantic Squash Championship. Our vision as a company is to see that sports develop in the country. “With the abundant talents seen in this championship, I believe Nigeria has a future in squash. All the players need is continuous competitions to sharpen their skills,” she said. President of the Nigeria Squash Federation (NSF), Boye Oyerinde commended the organisers of the championship for their sacrifice to move the game forward, adding, “the year has been good for squash based on the various tournaments the players are exposed to in the country. “The Prime Atlantic Squash Championship gave the players the chance to raise the standard of their game. The federation is looking up to organise more quality championships to keep players in top form. “Getting Nigeria to the top in squash is a continuous process which needs more sponsorships,” he declared. Trophies, medals and cash prizes were awarded to the participants at the Prime Atlantic Squash Championship. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .