 Sealed church  Some of the centres affected are located at old Otta Road, Orile Agege, Ademola Oshinowo, off Love All Street, Ketu, Dele Amuda Street, Lekki, 17, Ajileye Street, Ilaje Bariga , Kusenla Road Elegunshi, Ajayi Bembe Street. Abule Oja in Yaba, amongst others. The exercise is part of the routine enforcement of the agency.The General Manager of the Agency, Dr. Dolapo Fasawe who spoke during the exercise reiterated that there is no hiding place for any religious organisation that fails to operate within the ambit of the law, regardless of their religious inclinations. She stated that the mutual respect of views, culture and religion, which the yearly ‘Tolerance Day’ celebration declared by United Nations, must be adhered to by residents of the State especially religious organisations who are supposed to be the bastion of good conduct, tolerance, brotherliness and godly neighborliness. Fasawe assured residents that the agency would not rest on its oars in bequeathing a livable ambience to all inhabitants of the State, stressing that those recalcitrant organisations or worship centres noted for noise pollution in the state would face the full wrath of the law.She declared that, although government was positively disposed to peaceful conduct of religion based on choice, it would not condone infringements on rights of other residents of the State in the name of religious activities. According to her, several warnings had been issued to the management of these churches and mosques before the seal up but the efforts had not yielded the expected result.Fasawe explained that, for the facilities to be reopened, the leaders of the organisations must reach an agreement of compliance with the agency and also satisfy other necessary conditions as may be prescribed by the law. She further warned managements of the sealed centres to desist from unsealing them behind the government as serious consequences awaited such unlawful act.“The state government recognizes the fact that the Lagos thrives on peaceful co-existence among practitioners of the major religions, but of great concern to the state government is the need for religious activities to be conducted in a manner that worshippers and citizens would not infringe on each other’s rights,” she said. She further warned that illegal and unauthorized conversion of residential properties for religious use without recourse to the wellbeing of other residents and the state of the environment is of great concern to the present administration. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .