 Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo. Photo: TWITTER/NIGIAGOV  Some of those facts that could be deducted from the President’s speech anytime he discusses the vice president, is confirmation of his commitment to the people, deferring all odds to connect to the ordinary people. The president also reflect love to his deputy, whose working relationship appears like a bond that is divinely inspired. Osinbajo, through his relentless efforts, has made Nigeria recover so fast, saving the nation’s economy from recession, stepping up the ease of doing a business, brilliant presentation in and outside of the country, attracting more foreign investors and projecting the President Buhari’s led government positively. On the scorecard, his first four years as the vice president gave him an excellent mark. Obviously, he is not doing this just for himself, but in the best interest of Nigeria. Knowing that every time spent in the past, the present and the future of the Nigerian People. Emir of Daura, Alhaji Farouk Umar, while commending Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, SAN for his service, commitment and loyalty, said that: “Prof. Osinbajo is the most honest person and leader Nigeria has produced in recent times. “His relationship has remained cordial with Buhari largely because of his honesty, I commend you, Vice President. I am particularly happy with the Vice President for the way he has shown loyalty to President Buhari, Daura Emirate is extremely grateful, for your commitment and confidence transforming Nigeria despite the challenges.” In Nigeria’s history, no political office holder has taken more risk to get to the people without an intermediary like the Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Professor Yemi Osinbajo SAN. The vice-president has taken many steps that many political office holders wouldn’t have dared for the fear of security breach, violence and assassination. There are no two ways about it, his moves could easily be traced to his love for the masses, as he remains the link between them and the government. Resolving conflicts and bringing balance to the country, when need be. In 2018, when militancy was about returning back to the country, as the Acting President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo visited the Niger Delta, the country’s oil hub, to tackle the issue of militancy head-on. In his diplomacy, Osinbajo has said that young men in the region must be “properly engaged” to stop them falling into militant groups or participating in illegal refining of crude oil. These issues were laid to rest since then, hence, the country and the oil multinationals now enjoy the peace that enhanced uninterrupted transactions. The local refineries operators also commended the President through his deputy, “We want to commend the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari and the Acting President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo for the series of recent firsts in the attempts to put in place sustainable peace, development and local participation of youths and other stakeholders in the region.” “It is on record that the recent visits and interaction between the Acting President and the stakeholders in Delta, Bayelsa and Rivers states have opened positive tidings to the people of the region, and in particular, the local refinery operators. Aside from the Niger Delta, Osinbajo is loved across all the geopolitical zones of Nigeria and beyond. Another issue that steered controversies was the protest against the police department of the special anti-robbery squad. As the acting President, Osinbajo dealt with the agitations against the SARS and the manner he handled it brought joy to the people. Recall, Osinbajo “directed the Inspector General of Police to, with immediate effect, overhaul the management and activities of SARS and ensure that any unit that will emerge from the process will be intelligence-driven and restricted to the prevention and detection of armed robbery and kidnapping, and apprehension of offenders linked to the stated offences, and nothing more.” On creating jobs; the social intervention programmes that were supervised by the vice-president, until recently, got global nods and recommendations.  It is the first genuine intervention programme that touched the beneficiaries directly. These include the millions of youths that are direct and indirect beneficiaries of Npower, the market women also benefitted directly through trader moni, the homegrown feeding programme, stipends for the poor families and so on. Till date, Osinbajo still visits Nigerian homes, young entrepreneur and motivate the people. Professor Yemi Osinbajo is not just acting in the capacity of the vice president, he is representing the masses, restoring the hopes of those who couldn’t find one in the country. We need him because he is the eyes of the commoners, he represents us and with good initiatives, he brought governance closer to us. Don’t be discouraged, continue to be a hardworking and loyal Vice President to President Muhammadu Buhari, God is with you, Nigerians got your back.
 Opeyemi, a political analyst, wrote from Lagos State. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .