 House Plenary. Photo; TWITTER/HOUSENGR  Akiolu Kayode sponsored a motion to that effect yesterday. The lawmakers, who observed a minute silence in honour of Dr. Adadevoh, her medical team and all Nigerians that died from the Ebola crisis of 2014, urged Buhari to recognise their patriotism. They urged the president to include the late Adadevoh and other such national heroes in the country’s civic education curricula, to build the spirit of patriotism and nationalism in the young ones. In 2014, Dr. Adadevoh, a consultant physician and endocrinologist at a private hospital in Ikoyi, Lagos, risked her life in a bid to curb the spread of the Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) in the country by quarantining a Liberian-American diplomat, Patrick Sawyer, whom she suspected of having the virus. Sawyer had entered Nigeria from Liberia to attend an Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) conference in Calabar, Cross River State, but on arrival at the Lagos Airport on July 20, 2014, he collapsed and was taken to First Consultants Medical Centre, where Dr. Adadevoh worked. By quarantining Mr. Sawyer in the hospital, Adadevoh and some of her staff were infected with Ebola. The lawmakers also enjoined the Federal Ministry of Health to deploy necessary materials and personnel to curtail the spread of the deadly virus in the country. Adopting a motion sponsored by Paschal Obi at the plenary presided over by Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila, the house directed the officials of the health ministry to screen passengers at the country’s ports and land borders. Mandating the committees on healthcare services and health institutions to breathe down the relevant agencies’ neck to ensure precautionary measures were taken to avert recurrence of the disease. They urged the Federal Government to set aside funds for the management of the Ebola virus in the event of its recurrence in the country. Obi, while moving the motion, argued that there was the need to put in place precautionary measures against the pandemic, in view of the country’s proximity to the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) where the virus reportedly originated. Underlining his assertions, the lawmaker claimed that there were more than 1,000 cases of Ebola infections in DRC since fresh cases were reported in March. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .