 A member of the “yellow vest” (gilets jaunes) movement lays flowers during a rally in tribute to Chantal Mazet, one year after the death of the 63 year-old woman on a roundabout in Le Pont-de-Beauvoisin, near Chambery, central eastern France, on November 17, 2019. – Mazet, member of the “yellow vest” (gilets jaunes) movement, died after being hit by a car on a roundabout in Le Pont-de-Beauvoisin, central eastern France, on November 17, 2018. The sign reads “In memory of Chantal, French citizen fallen on November 17, on the first day of the yellow vest demonstrations”. (Photo by ROMAIN LAFABREGUE / AFP)  The violence in Paris, where police battled rioters for hours around the southeastern Place d’Italie square, was the worst in the French capital in months. A total of 173 people were arrested in the city, Castaner told Europe 1 radio, revising upwards Saturday’s count of 147. Dozens more were arrested in smaller protests in cities including Nantes, Montpellier, Strasbourg, Bordeaux, and Toulouse. Further protests are planned on Sunday. Castaner claimed that there were “few demonstrators” among the protesters Saturday in Paris, who he said were mainly “thugs, brutes who came to fight the security forces and prevent the emergency services from doing their work.” Several cars were overturned or set alight, bus shelters were smashed and a monument to a World War II hero – Marshal Alphonse Juin — was defaced. The windows of a major shopping centre and a neighbouring hotel were also attacked by groups of stone-throwing demonstrators dressed in black, who wore masks to hide their faces. The police, who had initially authorised the demonstration but declared it illegal after it turned violent, used tear gas and water cannon to try to quell the unrest. In rural France, the anniversary passed off generally peacefully, with thousands of yellow vests occupying the traffic roundabouts where the movement began last year over rising fuel taxes. The interior ministry put the number of demonstrators at 28,600 nationwide but the organisers said nearly 40,000 people had rallied — a far cry from the estimated 282,000 who took part in the first big day of protests on November 17, 2018. The leaderless yellow vests, who accuse President Emmanuel Macron of ruling on behalf of the urban elite, are adamant that they have not gone away. They are now looking to join forces with the trade union movement, which is planning a major transport strike over pension reforms starting on December 5.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .