PHOTO: Pixabay Over 120 players have arrived in Lagos to compete in the third edition of the Ex-Pros Squash Diaspora U-13, 16 & over 45 Squash Championship, which begins today at the Teslim Balogun Stadium. The championship, which the organisers want to use to discover fresh talents and also create more awareness about squash, has lived up to its billing. More retired players from outside the country have joined in making the competition more attractive and competitive. Addressing journalists yesterday ahead of the championship, chairman of the Ex-Squash Pros Diaspora, Femi Shittu said the event would be special because children and the youths in the competition would be given special motivational talk on how to overcome life challenges. “Within three years of staging the championship, talents have been discovered and monitored by the Nigeria Squash Federation. “Our aim, which is to give back to the society as ex-players of squash in the Diaspora, is gradually coming through. We introduced the over 45 years event to add more glamour to the championship. “Squash is a sport that builds all the parts of the body and creates social values that aids individuals in living healthy lifestyle. “Parents should encourage their wards take part in squash by taking advantage of our grassroots programme,” he declared. Also speaking at the event, Nigeria Squash Federation President, Boye Oyerinde, who commended the Ex-Squash Pros Diaspora team for their efforts to develop the sport, promised the NSF would not stop providing platforms for players to excel. “I am glad that Ex-Squash players are joining to promote the sport in Nigeria. It would not have been easy for me and my board members if former players did not come in to invest their resources on the young ones through organising competitions for them. “Squash players have enjoyed competing in different PSA and developmental championship this year, which has helped shore up Nigeria’s global ranking. The Ex-Pros championship is another avenue for children to hone their skills. The children will be accommodated, fed for the three days of the championship by the organisers,” he said. Over N2 million worth of prizes will be shared among the winners of the championship. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .