Kano state police command in Kano has confirmed the arrest and detention of four officers of the command for alleged involvement in the death of one Abdulkadir Nasiru. Abdulkadir, 26, a resident of Madobi local government area of Kano state, was reportedly tortured to death by the men of the Nigerian police, Madobi division while undergoing unknown charges in the police net. Police spokesperson DSP Abdullahi Haruna, who confirmed the incident through the phone, said while the Commissioner of Police has ordered full-scale investigation on the case, four officers allegedly involved are have been detained. Although, Haruna did not clearly divulge the offence that led to the arrest and detention of late Abdulkadir, he simply posited that “the case involved three Persons but there was alleged exchanged of angry words between the victim and a police officer, when he was ordered to go inside the police station for questioning and the late Abdulkadir was alleged to have slapped the policeman on the process of investigation at the Madobi police division”. According to him, “Immediately the case  brought to the notice of the state command, the Commissioner of Police has ordered that the case be transferred to homicide Department of the police for proper investigation and the four policemen on duty at that fateful day have been arrested and detained over the incident.” DSP Haruna noted. Meanwhile, the Emir of Karaye, Alhaji Ibrahim Abubakar II, has demanded a full investigation into the death of Abdulkadir. A statement issued by the spokesman of Karaye emirate, Alhaji Mohammadu Gunduwawa said the emir was shocked with the sad incidence and asked the Kano state police command to ensure all those behind the act are brought to book. “I received the complaint on the incident from the father of the late Abdulkadir, Mallam Nasiru Madobi of Madobi local government area as well as an official report on the incident from the District Head of Madobi; Maji dadin Karaye Alhaji Musa Saleh Kwankwaso. The Karaye Emirate council will remain vigilant towards ensuring the prevailing of justice in the case,” Gunduwawa said. Gunduwawa disclosed that the Emir has directed the Secretary of the emirate council to write an official letter to the Kano state commissioner of police on the subject matter.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .