 VP, Osinbajo and President Buhari  The Presidency has finally confirmed the sack of some of the aides attached to the office of the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo.In a statement, yesterday, the Presidency confirmed that the action was carried out as part of the “ongoing, unprecedented overhaul of the nation’s seat of government, arising from which a number of political appointments have either been revoked or not renewed in the second term.” It, however, refuted claims of any rift between President Muhammadu Buhari and Osinbajo, saying the relationship between the two leaders was geared towards ensuring a better Nigeria. According to the statement signed by Buhari’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, the aides were sacked to also reduce the cost of governance.Nigerians had been alarmed over the sack of 35 aides of the vice president, with Laolu Akande, his spokesman dismissing a list published on Thursday. But the Presidency confirmed the action, saying the exercise was to cut down the cost of governance, adding: “The exercise, which has been ordered by the President, is to streamline decision-making, cut down multiple authorities and reduce the cost of administration.“It is also an appropriate response to the general perception that the Presidency has an oversized and bloated workforce, which acts as a drag on efficiency. “As may have been noticed by discerning members of the public, a number of political appointees among the few that served in the office of the President were not returned for the second term.“The office of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has, in compliance with the directive of the President, equally been shed of a number of such appointees. “In carrying out these exercises, the overriding objective is to save taxpayer money and deliver needed service to the public. As far as the President is concerned, there is no scope for an excuse for administration after getting a huge mandate to run the country for four more years.” The statement continued: “In the light of this, the Presidency wishes to strongly deny rumours of a rift between President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. The relationship between the two leaders remains excellent and trusting. Together, they will script a glorious future for the nation. “The media reports of a soured relationship are originating from the minds and mouths of mischief-makers, who are desperate for entertaining stories from the Aso Rock Villa with which to titillate the public. This ulterior motive is the basis of the wrong interpretation given to the recent exercise in the Presidency. “There has been a streamlining of staff going on for a while. The President has always had fewer staff than the Vice President and there were always plans to reduce the number of staff at the Villa.“The streamlining was not personal or targeted to undermine the Vice President’s office, as the so-called insider sources quoted by the media appear to make it seem.“The President is in absolute control of his government. The media should stop attributing non-existent powers to some people. There cannot be anyone too powerful for President Buhari to control.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .