 Olakunle Olalere  At the weekend in Ilara-Mokin, the 18-year-old 200 level of Hotel and Tourism Management student of Elizade University, was at his best in the competition that earned him a full University scholarship last year. He made a gross of 76 and a net of 69 to retain the crown.
Going into the Elizabeth Wuraola Ojo Memorial Tournament, Olalere’s desire was to maintain or better the 75 gross and 59 net that he made last year at the tournament that he describes ‘as the best thing that has happened to me.’ “Really, I was thinking I could maintain the scores I had last year. I tried my best and did as I did last year.
“In fact, this tournament has brought great changes in my life, getting me a full University scholarship. I will say proudly that I am such a lucky guy. I’m so happy to be in the university. I’m in 200 level now studying Hotel and Tourism management. I thank God, it’s such a great event. I never thought I could be where I am right now. I am so happy to have participated in the tournament, I’m so happy indeed. “It’s such a great opportunity playing in the midst of these older men and shake them in the course of play. First I must say that my step grandpa inspired me into playing golf. From his base in the United Kingdom (UK) he brought the game of golf to my community in Ekiti, but today, my role model is Tiger Woods.” Olalere is looking forward to the day he will join the professional ranks, where he will now have the opportunity of competing against the best in the sport. But first, he wants to complete his education.“On completion of my studies, I want to become a professional golfer like Tiger Woods. I want to compete with all the world’s renowned golfers in the nearest future. “I really have the passion for this game of golf. And to Chief Michael Ade-Ojo, I can’t thank him enough. He has done a lot to his community and even in my family. I just pray to God Almighty to keep him strong and alive to keep doing the good job he’s doing. He’s such a great man and he has brought a lot of change in my life,” he said. The Amateur men’s runner up and second runner up went to Tunji Ojuolape also of Smokin Hills Golf Club with a gross of 78 and a net of 69.The Ladies title went to Yusuf Grace, who posted a gross of 80 and a Net of 71, while the second place went to Dupe John with a gross of 93 and a net of 75. Olowokere R occupied the third place with a gross of 98 and a net of 76.The Amiable Woman of the tournament crown went to Mrs. Taiwo Ade.Ojo, the wife of Chief Michael Ade.Ojo, the chairman of Toyota (Nigeria) Limited and owner of Smokin Hills Golf Glub and Elizade University.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .