 overnor Adegboyega Oyetola. Photo:  TWITTER/GBOYEGAOYETOLA  The government said that no stone would be left unturned to move the state from a civil service state to a regional commercial and industrial hub. This was disclosed in Osogbo at the press briefing heralding the proposed Osun Economic and Investment Summit scheduled to hold between November 19 and 21, 2019 where over 1,000 participants are expected to attend. Addressing journalists, the Chief of Staff to the Governor, Dr. Charles Akinola, who doubles as the Chairman of the Summit Planning Committee, flanked by other committee members such as the Deputy Chief of Staff, Prince Abdullahi Binuyo; Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation; Mrs. Funke Egbemode; Commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget, Prof. Olalekan Yinusa and Special Adviser to the Governor on Education, Mr. Jamiu Olawumi, said the summit was put together in furtherance of Governor Adegboyega Oyetola’s commitment to turnaround the socio-economic and political fortunes of the state. He said the government was resolute to tap and properly harness the huge economic opportunities in the state to the entire world. The chief of staff said the proposed economic and investment summit was aimed at driving home the state’s development agenda, which primarily is to sustainably reposition the economy of the state and deliver prosperity to the people. Akinola further revealed that the state would use the platform to present the government’s economic roadmap and showcase investment opportunities within the state to both Nigerian and international investors. He noted that the summit is in fulfillment of the promise the governor made during his swearing-in, in November last year, where he promised to hold an economic and investment summit, to drive the economy of the state. He said the summit would help to develop a strategic roadmap that will help to boost the Internally-Generated Revenue (IGR) of the state. Akinola, who said world-class and top-notch speakers, development partners, investors, panellists and moderators have confirmed their attendance, disclosed that the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo; Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Mr. Godwin Emiefele; Minister of Trade, Otunba Niyi Adebayo; Minister of Steels and Mines, Mr. Olamilekan Adegbite; Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr. Sabo Nanono and Prof. Ademola Oyejide, Chairman, Public Policy Group, ISGPP, are expected to grace the three-day event. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .