The President, Nigeria Boxing Federation, Gen. Kenneth Minimah has announced the commencement of the Nigeria Boxing Series/League to encourage and groom fighters for international competitions.
 
Minimah, who spoke to journalists at the unveiling of the league at the Old School Hall, Brai Ayonote Boxing Complex, National Stadium, Surulere, Lagos said the league, which would take place for six weeks, came bridge the gap in boxing, especially as Nigerian fighters are not represented well in both local and international competitions. “We discovered that we have been challenged by low performances at both local and international competitions and we realised there was a gap in turning the boxers into good performance fitness to drive their love and passion for the sport,” he said.  He, however, lamented the low sponsorship of boxing sport by corporate bodies in the country, saying most sponsors tag the sport violent and hazardous.
 
“It is very difficult engaging the corporate sphere in the sponsorship of boxing on the grounds that is it a hazardous sport, some said it is violent and would rather put their money in other sports that are entertaining and nonviolent, but boxing is beautiful, every other sport also have their own hazards as well, not just boxing, but with this initiative, the corporate sphere will come in,” he added.
   
Explaining more about the Nigeria Boxing League, a Nigeria Boxing Federation board member and Chairman, Nigeria Boxing Series, Azania Omo-Agege, said the league would begin with four boxing teams, Delta Force, Sea Warriors, De Rocks of Abeokuta and the Lags Teams, that would combat both home and away.
 
“We are starting on December 7 and it will go on for six weeks. Our boxers will be fighting every two weeks and right now we have about four teams that have registered. In the league, we have eight different boxing categories and different weight groups. That is eight boxers in each of the teams with different weight categories and five substitutes. These ones will always be fighting when the game starts,” he explained. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .