Delta State government has taken the drive for its industrial revolution to the United States (U.S.), saying that it is poised to provide an enabling environment for investors to invest in the Kwale Industrial Park (KIP) and make the state a commercial nerve centre in Africa. This assurance was given by the state Commissioner for Trade and Investments, Chika Ossai, while addressing participants at the 2019 USA/Nigeria Business and Investments Summit held in Atlanta, Georgia, U.S. Ossai, in a statement signed by his Public Relations Officer, Mr. Chucks Eboagwu, and made available to The Guardian yesterday in Asaba, disclosed the state’s readiness for the project with highlights, and the viability of KIP, adding that a lot of Chinese investors have indicated interest to invest here. He also educated prospective investors on the advantages of investing in the park with huge deposits of oil and gas in the area and the proximity of the park to oil and gas pipelines, which are added advantages. According to the commissioner, “The Kwale Industrial Park, which is less than one hour drive, on a dual carriage way from Asaba International Airport, is a better choice with more attractions from the huge deposits of oil and gas in the area and the proximity of the park to oil and gas pipelines. All these are added advantage to the investors.” He said that the state was soliciting for a more cordial relationship with the international communities in the area of doing business, “a reason the state governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, has set aside $10 million to encourage early entrance investors to the industrial park sitting on one thousands hectares of land.” “Already, excited host-communities are eagerly waiting and ready to co-operate with investors, as the state is blessed with needed raw materials for their products and market for their products. Their excitements stem from the fact that when the park commences operations fully, it will not only create jobs for the teeming youths in the state, but it will make the state a commercial nerve centre in Africa. “This is because the present administration is diversifying the state’s economy from oil and gas. That had led to a lot of programmes that had been put in place to encourage entrepreneurs and investors in the state,” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .