 Sudanese students protest on the roof of a building overseeing a mosque in the capital Khartoum as hardline cleric Mohamed Ali Jazuli (not pictured) gives a sermon during Friday prayers, on November 29, 2019. – Ousted president Omar al-Bashir’s party today condemned Sudan’s new “illegal government” for ordering its closure and the dismantling of his regime that ruled the country for 30 years.<br />Sudan’s new authorities yesterday approved a law ordering the Islamist leader’s National Congress Party to be dissolved, its assets confiscated and the regime dismantled as demanded by the protest movement that led to Bashir’s fall in April. (Photo by ASHRAF SHAZLY / AFP)  More than 250 people were killed and hundreds injured in the months-long protests that erupted in December 2018, according to umbrella protest movement Forces of Freedom and Change. Bashir, who ruled Sudan with an iron fist for 30 years, was deposed by the army in a palace coup on April 11 after the demonstrations triggered by an acute economic crisis. Crowds marched from a central Khartoum square to Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok’s offices, demanding authorities deliver justice for those killed and also find out about protesters who went missing. “Blood for blood!” chanted protesters gathered in front of Hamdok’s offices in the capital, an AFP correspondent reported. Dozens of policemen stood guard as protesters, many whistling, clapping and ululating, belted out revolutionary slogans. “We want justice for martyrs. We are afraid that the criminals might not be judged,” said protester Nizar bin Sufian. He said protesters welcomed Thursday’s decision by the new authorities to dismantle Bashir’s regime and former ruling party. “But we have not seen any moves by the government to find those missing or to begin trials of those responsible for the killing of protesters,” bin Sufian told AFP. Bashir and several senior members of his regime are in prison, while the veteran leader himself is on trial for alleged graft. Since August, Sudan has been ruled by a joint civilian-military sovereign council headed by General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan. A transitional cabinet led by Hamdok has been tasked with the day-to-day running of the country. The sovereign council is tasked with overseeing an overall transition to civilian rule as demanded by the protest movement. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .