 Fake SARS operators  Detectives from Ojo Division led by the Divisional Police Officer, arrested one Chukwunonso Blessing, 30years of 23 Masebinu Street, Igbede, Ojo. Lagos State Command Spokesman, DSP Bala Elkana said the suspect was seen along Alaba International Market with two children namely Joshua James, 6 and Samuel Gbawune, 3, trying to board a vehicle to Onitsha, Anambra State. He added that while questioning the suspect, she claimed that the boys were adopted by her husband, one Chukwunonso Happiness, 40, from motherless babies home in Jos, Plateau State and brought to Lagos. “She further claimed that she was taking them to Onitsha to meet her husband. On November 1, 2019, around 7.am, our operatives also arrested the said husband. “He confessed to having bought the kids with the sum of N140, 000 from one Mama Oyo of Jos Township. The kids were recovered. Efforts are in place to identify their parents and reunite them. The Command further calls on motor park operators, unions and well-meaning Nigerians to keep an eye on passengers with children that appear in a suspicious manner. In another development, Elkana said the police arrested two fake operatives that had been terrorising and extorting money from citizens of the country, claiming to be operatives of SARS. He said CSP Lasisi Iyunade, DPO in charge of Ifako police division led the squad that arrested the suspect. “On  October 2, at about 10.am, operatives from Ifako police division led by the DPO accosted two men dressed in black T-Shirts with the inscription SARS boldly written along Julius Kadri Street Ifako, Gbagada. They claimed to be SARS Operatives, on their way to effect an arrest at Bakare Daudu market. On further questioning, they claimed to be members of the Police Community Relations Committee (PCRC) from Victoria Island. “Two fake PCRC ID card bearing same name were recovered from them. The Suspects were charged to court and remanded in Kirikiri Correctional Home”. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .