• Igbinedion varsity to honour Jonathan, Omotola, others at convocation
The University of Benin (UNIBEN) chapter of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) yesterday ordered its members not to enrol in the contentious Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS). In a statement by its chairman, Monday Omoregie Joy, in Benin City, the union described the directive by the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation (OAGF) to the varsity teachers to register with the scheme as unacceptable. This comes as the Congress of University Academics (CONUA) directed its members to embrace the initiative. The ASUU chair noted that the “IPPIS negates the autonomy of universities as enshrined in the Universities Amendment Act 2003 (also called Universities Autonomy Act No1, 2007) and it also fails to accommodate the peculiarities of the Nigerian University System (NUS).” He claimed that the payroll system “is driven primarily by selfish interests and motivations rather than the much-vaunted claim about stemming the tide of corruption.” Besides, the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University (ATBU) Bauchi branch of the union has maintained that the masses stand to be more affected by the ‘innovation’. Its chairman, Dr. Adamu Muhammad Babayo, said in line with position of the national leadership, the branch has insisted that no member should make himself available for capturing. “This crisis is uncalled for. We have told government that we will come up with our own robust template for university system instead of IPPIS,” he stated. However, CONUA observed that the nation’s education system was on a dangerous precipice, thus requiring government and employees of tertiary institutions, especially academics, to urgently adopt deliberate measures towards salvaging the sector from the dysfunctionality. Its University of Port Harcourt branch coordinator, Dr. Ovunda Ihunwo, told journalists that they decided to break away from ASUU for several reasons, including the opposition to IPSS, “a policy that has not been tried in any federal universities before now.” Meanwhile, former President Goodluck Ebele Goodluck Jonathan is among eminent Nigerians to be conferred with honorary doctoral degrees by the   Igbinedion University Okada (IUO) for their contributions to human and national development during the institution’s 17th convocation in Edo State. The Vice Chancellor, Prof. Lawrence Ezemonye, who unveiled yesterday activities lined up for the event at Okada, named other recipients as Oba Saheed Ademola Eleguishi (Kusenla III); Chairman, Business International Management, Sow Bertin Agba; and Nollywood actress, Omotola Jolade-Ekeinde. He added that the erstwhile chairman of the institution’s Governing Council, Prof. Olu Aina, would be conferred with the title of Professor Emeritus. The administrator said 583 were graduating, including postgraduate, Master’s and PhD students. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .