• American billionaire, Nigerian industrialist, governors meet over improved health Vice President Yemi Osibanjo yesterday enjoined wealthy Nigerians to emulate the Bill Gates, Aliko Dangotes and Femi Otedolas to better the lot of the poor through philanthropy and make the world a better place for all. In his goodwill message to the ‘’Save the Children’’ dinner and gala night organised by Cuppy Foundation in Abuja, Osibanjo noted:  ‘’No one would ever remember the number of houses or cash one has but the impact one makes like the likes of Bill Gates, Aliko Dangote and Femi Otedola in assisting the poor and the vulnerable in the society.” He submitted that the above persons had brought hope to millions through their foundations, adding that the “Save the Children” was the largest donation to charity in Nigeria, as over N5 billion was realised from the event. In her welcome remarks, the foundation’s founder, Florence Cuppy Otedola, sought the support of Nigerians in her quest to advance the society.She said: ‘’Over the years, my passion for tackling issues surrounding young Nigerians grew as I got more involved with the work of charity, assiduously working to make a change.” The philanthropist explained that it was when she visited Maiduguri that her passion to help children grew bigger. Otedola observed: ‘’We must all donate to help the less-privileged children and the vulnerable in the society. Present at the occasion were Governor Baba Gana Zulum of of Borno State; Femi Otedola; Hajia Bola Shagaya; Ambassador Baba Gana Kingibe; Otunba Niyi Adebayo; Senators Bukola Saraki and Gabriel Suswam; All Progressives Congress (APC) National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole; Alhaji Aliko Dangote and daughter, Halima; Minister of Women Affairs and Social Development, Pauline Tallen; former military administrator of Lagos State, Brig.-Gen. Buba Marwa, among others. Meanwhile, Gates, Dangote as well as Governors Bala Mohammed of Bauchi, Mohammad Inuwa Yahaya of Gombe and Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos are meeting in Seattle, United States over improved healthcare delivery in Nigeria.A statement by the media aide to the Bauchi chief executive, Mukhtar Gidado, confirmed the development yesterday. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .