Operatives of the Imo State Police Command have arrested a housewife, Mrs. Ukamaka Ezike, for allegedly beating two out of her three children to death. According to the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Imo State Police Command, Orlando Godson Ikeokwu, yesterday, the suspect’s husband, Christian Ezike, had reported to the command at the weekend that while he was away, his wife on November 15, 2019 allegedly beat their biological children, including a 2-month-old baby to coma, leading to their being hospitalized, disclosing that the 2-month-old and the 2-year-old died while receiving treatment. The suspect, Ikeokwu said, was later arrested, while investigation is ongoing.According to him, “On the November 16, 2019, around 9.am, one Christian Ezike of Awo Idemili, in Orsu Local Government Area, reported at the Divisional Police Headquarters, Orsu, that on the November 15, 2019, while he was away, his wife, Ukamaka Ezike, beat up their three children, Kosarachukwu Ezike 4-years-old, Chinwendu Ezike, 2-years-old, Chinecherem Ezike, 2-months-old. They were rushed to the hospital and Chinecherem and Chinwendu died while receiving treatment, suspect has been arrested and investigation has commenced accordingly.” In another sad development, the police in the state launched a manhunt on a man identified as Nnamdi Amajioyi, of Umuifem, Avutu, Obowo Local Government Area of the state, for allegedly killing his wife for yet to be disclosed family dispute. The suspect, the Commissioner of Police, Rabiu Ladodo, confirmed, also shot his biological brother while trying to rescue the wife, stressing that he had been in a critical condition, receiving treatment in an undisclosed hospital. Ladodo said: “She bled to death and the man shot his brother while trying to rescue his wife. He fled after shooting them. This is very strange”Ladodo disclosed that he has directed a massive manhunt on the suspect, adding that his men would not relent until he is caught and made to face the law accordingly. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .