Deputy Governor of Imo State, Gerald Irona, has said that the administration of governor Emeka Ihedioha is committed to promoting the rule of law in the state.Irona said this at the weekend, while addressing a delegation of the Section on Public Interest and Development Law (SPIDEL) of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), who visited him in his office at the Government House, Owerri. He assured them that the administration was committed to the promotion of rule of law in all government dealings and would ensure the independence of the three arms of government to guarantee peace, order and good governance. “This administration is committed to rule of law. To have good governance, rule of law must be our guide. We are taking steps towards building stronger institutions, than strong individuals. We intend to leave an enduring legacy of rule of law and good governance. We shall, in all our dealings, give respect to the other arms of government. We shall leave a lasting and sustainable foundation predicated on the rule of law. “We had instances where governments in the past disobeyed court pronouncements. We assure you that we shall obey all court pronouncements. Anyone we feel strongly against, we shall challenge it in higher courts. We have zero tolerance for impunity,” he stated. Speaking, the leader of the delegation who is also the Chairman of the body, Dr. Paul Ananaba (SAN), commended the Emeka Ihedioha-led administration for recognising the hallmark of good governance by keeping faith with the rule of law in government business.He expressed the willingness of SPIDEL to partner the state government in ensuring that the rule of law was mainstreamed in governance of Imo State. Ananaba, however, used the occasion to inform the Deputy Governor of the decision of the group to honour Ihedioha at SPIDEL’s annual Conference holding in November 6 in Aba.His words: “SPIDEL is one of the three sections of the Nigerian Bar Association.This section attends to all issues relating to Public Interest and Development Law. It will interest you to note that since the inception of the section, no conference has been held, East of the Niger.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .