Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has implored members of Community Development Associations (CDAs) to serve as voluntary supervisors to ongoing projects across the state to ensure contractors deliver quality projects. Speaking at the 2019 Community Day Celebration, yesterday, Sanwo-Olu said CDAs and CDCs are the real growth engines in the state. The event, themed: “Revising Rural Communities For 21st Century Development,” organised by the Lagos State Ministry of Local Government and Community Affairs holds yearly to celebrate CDAs and their efforts in improving their communities. According to the Governor: “Our community development; the CDAs and the CDCs are the real engines of growth. They are the owners of all our interventions in government. They are the ones that own every intervention. Everything we are building is for the community; it is for the local government. “So, it is important that the local government takes ownership of these development initiatives. We need to ensure that once we have sent contractors out, you should monitor them and ensure that they do and deliver quality service so that the schools, the hospitals, and the roads that those contractors are building meet the standard that is required of them. “You have to serve as monitors and ensure that the right proportion of things needed are used. You have the right to present your complaints to any contractor once you discover that the work is not properly done.” The Commissioner for Local Government & Community Affairs, Mrs. Yetunde Arobieke, appreciated the governor and other dignitaries for their presence.
Also present for the event are: The Wife of the Governor, Dr Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu; The wife of the Deputy Governor, Mrs. Oluremi Hamzat and the representative of the Oba of Lagos, Oba Rilwan Akiolu amongst others. Ten Community Development Associations with laudable community projects adjudged to be the best among about 8,500 CDAs were rewarded, as the best three went home with brand new buses. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .