School House (Green) has again won the 30th International School, University of Lagos yearly Inter-house Athletics competition held at the Sports Centre, University of Lagos. At a colourful fanfare witnessed by parents and friends of the students, School House successfully defended its title with 12 gold, 18 silver and three bronze medals. Registry (Red House) placed second with 12 gold, nine silver and 11 bronze medals, while Senate (Blue House) finished third with 10 gold, five silver and nine bronze medals. In the fourth position was Bursary House (White House) with four gold, five silver and five bronze medals, while Chancellery (Yellow House) finished fifth with two gold, four silver and five bronze medals, just as Congregation House (Purple) ended sixth with two gold, one silver and eight bronze medals. Mohammed Oluwafemisola of Registry House was adjudged the best athlete after he won gold in the long jump, the 100m, 200m, 4x100m and 4x400m. Speaking on the occasion, the Principal, Dr. M. B. Malik said the event was an opportunity for the students to showcase their talents. “The competition is a day the students always look forward to in the calendar of activities of the school. Like they say, all work and no play makes Jack a dull boy. You cannot take away sports from the educational system because psychologically it attunes the children to be ready for learning. Any school that doesn’t organise sports won’t get the best out of the children,” he said. Chairman of occasion, Mr. Ogunniran Hakeem stated there are areas aside academics that children stage their talents, saying, “We do have a responsibility as parents to nurture our children and ensure that we help them discover their talents and help them achieve their goals,” he said. For the Chairman of Parents, Teachers, Association, ISL, Chief Nzeribe Okegbue, said, “The best government can do is to provide sports facilities and help sponsor children who are doing well in inter-house sports to participate in international competitions,” adding that sports will help children develop mentally, psychologically and be physically fit. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .