 Nigeria flag. Photo: ALJAZEERA  What the report of BudgIT says, in effect, is that 32 (or about 89%) of the 36 states in Nigeria have gone beyond being stressed; they have become liabilities not just unto themselves but also to the people. They are simply unviable, bankrupt, unstable and therefore unsustainable. With about 89% of all the states incapable of funding their monthly or annual recurrent expenditures, there are genuine grounds for worry for the federation.
 
Is it therefore, any wonder that many of the states have been incapable and unable to pay salaries of their employees for many months, sometimes, years? Is it any wonder that the country, as a whole, has been witnessing increasing rates of unacceptable activities of a growing number of the citizens especially in the forms of armed robbery, human trafficking, hostage-taking and other forms of brigandage? Is it any surprise that rather than evidences of growth and development sprouting across the country, what one sees are deterioration and decay of existing infrastructure with little or no signs of new ones?
 
Unfortunately, most of the expenses by state governments in Nigeria are either unnecessary or over-bloated. Indeed, in some states, expenditure budgets are usually significantly higher than revenues. In some others, budgetary provisions for investment purposes are never brought to reality.
 
If the federating states cannot fund their expenses, something is fundamentally and seriously wrong. Is it that they have no means of generating revenue internally or they lack the ideas and strategies for revenue generation? It is certain that the first cannot be the challenge especially given the abundance of human and material endowments in various states. The truth is that the states have been unable to focus on the second, that is, idea and strategies for making money. If they had done so without positive outcome, that would have been a surprise as there is no part of this country that is not endowed with viable sources of income. It will only be governance laziness – in body, soul and spirit- that will cause any state in this blessed Nigeria to throw her hands up in the air and exclaim her helplessness in meeting her recurrent financial needs without borrowing. It is such helplessness in meeting recurrent expenditure and the need to keep a tight grip over the states rather than ensure fiscal federalism that, the Federal Government keeps serving as the Godfather by continuously bailing out bankrupt states.  Thus, the states need to be fiscally responsible. They cannot continue to borrow to cover recurrent expenditures. That will lead to their deaths eventually. They need to sit back, create, develop and grow their internal revenue streams that will meet and even surpass their expenses on a monthly and annual basis. They need to restructure their bureaucracies to reflect their ability to survive. Finally, the parlous state of a majority of states (being unable to fund their activities) calls attention again to the need for an honest political review of the current state structure in the country. This is the most important reason for true federalism. It is the only panacea for not just financial viability but more important, general economic and human development, growth and sustainability of the federation. Unless the states are made to cut their coats according to their cloths, unless the states can be made to live within the means in the states, Nigeria will continue to live on the illusion of bailouts to the states.   
 
All told, the fact that only four states are viable out of 36 reminds us of the glorious past too when there was a country of four regions that were not only viable but also competitive. One of the regions then was once reported as lending the federal authorities money – sadly before 1966 when the state structure built of true federalism was dismantled by military fiat with Decree No. 34. That obnoxious decree set the tone for the unviable 32 states of the federation. As this newspaper has always reiterated, that is why the power and political elite in the country should renew their minds and reach a consensus about the restoration of federalism sooner than later.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .