 2019 Lagos Women Run will be holding at Teslim Balogun Stadium, Surulere, Lagos. Photo: TWITTER/LAGOSWOMENRUN  The winner of the race will get a cash prize of N750, 000, the second place finisher will get N500, 000, the third-place winner will receive N300, 000, while the fourth to the 10th finisher will receive N100, 000 each.  “I have been preparing for this run and I am fully set and ready to participate. It is good to keep fit and it is what one needs to be doing every day. I hope and wish to win the race,” she enthused.
 
Also speaking on the race, Abiola Oluwatoyin is confident that she would emerge the winner. She said: “I want to catch fun and win the prize. I have been training and preparing for the run. I am confident that I am going to win and my mind is telling me that I am the winner.”
 
At the unveiling of the programme yesterday, the organisers revealed that the wife of the Lagos State Governor, Dr. Ibironke Sanwo-Olu, who will run alongside the wife of the Deputy Governor, Mrs. Oluremi Hamzat, will officially flag off the event from the Start Point at the Tafawa Balewa Square at 7.00 a.m. They revealed that the runners would move through Broad Street, CSS Bookshop, Central Bank of Nigeria, Tinubu Square, Apongbon, Eko Bridge, the coal thermal station and the National Theatre via the National Stadium with the finish line at the Teslim Balogun Stadium, Surulere.
   
The Lagos Women Run, which will be anchored by Olympic gold medallist, Enefiok Udobong, will be competed for in two categories: the Open Category for runners from ages 18 to 40 years old, who will be competing in V-neck shirt; and the Veteran Category for runners from 45 to 70 years old, who will compete with round neck shirts.
 
Meanwhile, the expo for the event commenced yesterday with the kits distributed to the women after the health screening. They were screened for different health issues such as high blood pressure and eye checks, among others. There was also a seminar for the runners to prepare them on how to run long-distance races. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .