 Special Adviser to Akwa Ibom Governor on Security, Fubara Duke (left); Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki; his Delta counterpart, Ifeanyi Okowa; Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu; and Special Adviser to Bayelsa Governor on Security, Boma Jack, during the 2019 South South Regional Police Security Summit in Asaba.  The support for grassroots policing came at the South South Nigeria Police Regional Security Summit in Asaba, themed “Strategic Partnership for Effective Community Policing in the South South Zone”, an engaging exercise that also had traditional rulers, ethnic nationalities and civil societies in furtherance of the IGP’s initiative. In a communiqué, the participants said the motive of community policing, which centres on integrating the grassroots into security management across the federation, was commendable. They agreed that the summit significantly redefined policing and security arrangement nationwide, adding that the current debacle should be the concern of not just government, but every citizen. Also in the document signed by the IGP and representatives of the governments of Akwa Ibom, Bayelsa, Cross River, Delta, Edo and Rivers and read by Governor Okowa, the stakeholders urged the police chief to design training for vigilance groups and neighbourhood watchers to bridge the personnel gap in the force. They equally resolved that ad hoc security operatives should be well equipped and funded with their operations subject to the direct supervision of the police. According to the IGP, “there is no police force within any clime in the world that can achieve its mandate in isolation of the community they were established to serve. This is regardless of the number or quality of the human resources, logistic capacity and finding profile, or remuneration and policing strategies that are in place.” He added: “The security and safety of the communities they serve shall remain under threat if there are partnership, communication and trust gaps between the police and the citizens, and that underscores the importance of the zonal security summit. “It is this process that we call on you as strategic stakeholders in South South to support us in sustaining, strengthening and advancing in the interest of our communal and internal security. In furtherance of this, we shall soon be re-launching the Safer Highway Motorised Patrol and the Safer City schemes.” Some of the acquired police smart surveillance patrol vehicles shall be deployed for the surveillance of oil pipelines along major highways and other vulnerable locations in the country.”Adamu also assured of his determination to the maximum deployment of resources towards mitigating crimes and fears in the country.Earlier in his welcome address, Okowa expressed joy with the concept designed to proactively address the diverse and emerging security threats in the country through engagement of relevant stakeholders. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .