The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), has alerted Nigerians, especially telecoms consumers, to the increasing rates of cybercrimes and electronic fraud (e-Fraud) in the country, and across the globe.
   
NCC, therefore, advices all consumers not to open emails that are not familiar to them, never to post personal identification information online or save their password online.
   
The Commission also reminded consumers that banks will never ask them personal detail via the Internet. However, in the event of any unfortunate circumstance, the NCC urged consumers to contact their bankers immediately to freeze their account, and also inform the mobile service provider for further actions.  He said that International Trade Fairs, over the years, have served as viable platforms for reaching out to teeming telecoms consumers.
  
“The Nigerian Communications Commission special day at this year’s trade fair aims at educating and informing consumers on the use of communication services and their rights as telecom consumers,” Danbatta said.
  
He listed some of the measures taken by the NCC to address consumers’ challenges to include the introduction of DO-NOT-DISTURB (DND) with the 2442 dedicated shortcode that enables subscribers take informed and independent decisions against unsolicited text messages offered by Value Added Service (VAS) providers, in conjunction with Telcos. Others are the introduction of Toll-Free Number 622, as a second-level complaint redress mechanism, which allows consumers to escalate unresolved issues by their service providers to the Commission for effective resolutions, among others.
  
On her part, the Director, Consumer Affairs Bureau, NCC, Mrs. Felicia Onwuegbuchulam, said the Commission carries out its functions to ensure service availability, accessibility and affordability to consumers, be it individuals or corporate, who are increasingly depending on ICT/telecoms to conduct personal and business activities on daily basis.
  
Onwuegbuchulam, who was also represented by the Lagos Zonal Controller at NCC, Henry Ojiokpota, said: “Consistent with the theme of this year’s International Trade Fair, the NCC, as telecoms industry regulator, is at the centre of connecting businesses through telecoms infrastructure development initiatives to improve business efficiency and effectiveness for growth.
  
“Our mandate at the NCC is to ensure the increased quality of service experience for the consumers of voice and data in the telecoms industry and we do this through many initiatives.”
    
President of LCCI, Paul Babatunde Ruwase, while highlighting the theme for this year’s trade fair: “Connecting Businesses and Creating Value,” commended the NCC for its efforts in connecting telecoms businesses to local and foreign investors, through the use of telephone services, which it regulates with passion.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .