 Abuja Jabamah Founder, Ikechi Uko  As practitioners and stakeholders in the travel industry gear up for Abuja Jabammah 2019, support has continued to come for the travel event that aims at promoting domestic tourism in Nigeria. Already, the National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC), Cabo Verde Airlines, Ethiopian Airlines, NIHOTOUR have all confirmed as partners for the 7th edition of one-day event billed for November 18, at the Exhibition Hall of the International Conference Centre (ICC), Abuja. Cabo Verde Airlines is making its first appearances at the tourism event organised by Akwaaba African Travel Market. The airline previously branded TACV Cabo Verde Airlines is a scheduled passenger and cargo airline based in Praia, Cape Verde. It is the national carrier of Cape Verde, operating flights to West Africa, Europe, North America and South America and will commence operation from Lagos, Nigeria this December and will connect travellers to America, Europe and Latin America.  Travellers Magazine last year unveiled a list of 100 Tourism Personalities in Nigeria, who have made a mark through their contributions to the development of tourism in Nigeria. According to the magazine’s publisher, Ikechi Uko, “In 1998, the Travellers magazine published its first compilation of the Nigerian Top 100 Tourism Club and the compilation served the industry well as it was a database of ‘who is who’ in tourism business in Nigeria. Twenty years after, an update was needed and we came up with the list of Top 100 tourism personalities, who have made tourism in Nigeria in 2018. In 2019 we have decided to promote the emerging performers in the industry,” he said. Some notable names that were inducted last year include Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed; DG National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC), Otunba Olusegun Runsewe and DG, Nigeria Tourism Development Corporation (NTDC), Folorunsho Folarin Coker, the Commissioners for Tourism in Lagos and Plateau States, Steve Ayorinde and Mrs. Tamwakat Weli respectively.The event will feature B2B speed networking sessions, while specifically showcasing the tourism attractions of northern Nigeria. Delegates will have the opportunity to have a taste of Northern delicacies, which will be catered by Abuja’s Chef Fatima. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .