Mitchell Elegbe To achieve technology inclusivity in Nigeria, experts have advocated a collaborative approach among relevant stakeholders. They also stressed the need for a ‘carry everyone along’ approach that builds a resilient, inclusive, collaborative, and innovative digital economy where everyone can contribute value, leverage on inclusive products and services to gain the desired benefits. Leading the call at the 2019 edition of the yearly dinner of International Chamber of Commerce Nigeria (ICCN), at the weekend, Founder/Managing Director, Interswitch Group, Mitchell Elegbe, said Nigeria like other African countries needs to find her own solutions to inclusive problems by taking advantage of and leveraging opportunities presented by global networking. Commendably, he said the private sector is so far taking the initiative in assuming the major role in ensuring that there is a glimpse of hope for technology for all. According to him, in developed climes such as Europe, America, and Asia, resources are channelled towards data protection, security and privacy. He regretted that most African countries, unfortunately, lack the infrastructure required to adequately collate and secure data. In his Keynote address, titled, ‘Make Technology Work for All’, Elegbe noted that the inclusivity of the nation’s workforce is hindered by the structure of the current digital age, specifically around data management, automation and artificial intelligence, hence the need for a collective effort. He therefore called on technological organisations to leverage on opportunity provided by different communication platforms and systems to make technology work for all. For the, Chairman, ICC Nigeria and Regional Coordinator, sub-Sahara Africa, Babatunde Savage, inclusiveness is important since technology is crucial to the success of any economic sector or business venture. He noted that every leap forward in technology can be a leap forward in human benefit, if managed properly. According to him, the focus by ICC Nigeria on, ‘Making Technology Work For All’ by presenting the successful experience of a highly innovative business like Interswitch Limited, is most appropriate because of its applied technology for the consumer; transparency in business, and public management amongst others. He also noted the firm’s growth and its planned move to the capital market, as phenomenal. “Technological progress has led to immense productivity gains. This was the case during the first industrial revolution and is still the case today. You will agree with me that, technology is a critical resource on which business, governments and society-at-large, hinge. “Leveraging insights from artificial intelligence, big data and mobile technology, as well as encouraging the dissemination of technical knowledge and technologies are related to the sustainability of the country. Every leap forward in technology, can be a leap forward in human benefit, if managed properly,” he said Technology is crucial to the success of any economic sector, or business venture. However, to tackle the menace of corruption in Nigeria, experts advised the use of technology. Adopting and harnessing technology would reduce the opportunities for corruption, ensure transparency, accountability, and promote ethical practices. They stressed that irrespective of the organisation, products or services, there is a technology solution that suits your need, Savage said. On her part, ICCN Secretary General, Mrs. Olubunmi Osuntuyi, said the choice of the theme was in line with ICCN chosen topics for her Centenary anniversary. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .