 [FILES] Nature Park. Photo; PIXABAY  The Founder, Lufasi Nature Park, Desmond Majekodunmi gave the charge at the commissioning of Lake Moses in remembrance of Senator Moses Adekoyejo Majekodunmi, as an effort to preserve nature and solve environmental challenges. Majekodunmi said that stopping pollution and embracing afforestation could prevent climate change. According to him, natural lakes help in absorbing floodwater and are a good source of water replenishment in the dry season. He noted that the world is experiencing climate emergency,, hence, the need for a greater regard for creation. “We are experiencing the hottest months and years ever. We have to plant more trees, shrubs to balance the ecosystem, as it is our life support system. Member, Lagos State House of Assembly, representing Amuwo Odofin Local Government Area, Mojisola Alli-Macaulay, noted that safe guarding the environment is a collective responsibility and urged citizens to be a part of it. “Our people need to understand that the environment has a way of rewarding you when it is taken care of. Planting trees around us help us breathe fresher air,” she added. She noted that lawmakers are enacting laws and strengthening enforcement. She encouraged Nigerians to make greater efforts towards protecting nature. “As Lagos develops, it is important for us to build in green spaces for urban development,” she added. Deputy British High Commissioner, Harriet Thompson noted that there are climate change and mental health benefits of green spaces. She also congratulated Lufasi for their effort to protect the urban green spaces. She encouraged Nigerians to make greater efforts towards protecting nature, stating that it would help maintain a healthier state, with reduced number of casualties in the hospitals. “ As Lagos develops, it is important for us to build in green spaces to urban development. If we don’t do it now, it would be too late and we would have regrets down the line, “ she added. Thompson noted her desire to work with various stakeholders to tackle the menace of climate change.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .