Lagos State Government has reiterated its commitment to improved transportation system in the state, particularly the water transport. The Managing Director, Lagos State Ferry Services (LAGFERRY), Mr. Abdoulbaq Ladi Balogun gave the assurance during an inspection tour of two major boat factories, V-Craft and Sierra Craft. He said Governor Babjide Sanwo-Olu is fully committed to efficient water transportation system and has instructed that LAGFERRY must identify and patronise local builders who have the capacity and adhere to international standard best practises. “We want to build the Eco-system and ensure everybody is carried along in achieving the multi modal transportation initiative of the present administration to decongest the roads, so any manufacturer that has the capacity, we will patronise. We want to encourage local investors particularly those that have interest in water transportation and purchase the boats that are not just made in Nigeria but made in Lagos,” he stated. While informing that the state government intends to roll out commercial ferry services in few weeks to come, Balogun assured Lagosians of a new experience in water transportation driven by latest technology He assured the local boat builders of the state government’s commitment to scale up their businesses by regularly patronising them in line with the vision of making water transportation one of the best possible alternatives. Balogun stated that in doing this, the state government is confident that the effort would help strengthen the economies of local boats builders, attract more interest in water transportation and bring daily traffic congestions on our roads to a barest minimum. In his response, the Managing Director, Sierra Craft, Mr. Olusegun Jaji, expressed delight at the interest of the state government in developing local water transportation, especially the assurances given to local builders that they would enjoy government patronage. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .