Governor Nyesom Wike (right); and the Amayanabo of Okrika, King Alfred Abam; during a courtesy visit by the Rivers Council of Traditional Rulers to the governor in Port Harcourt…yesterday. PHOTO: NAN Governor Nyesom Wike yesterday expressed concern that the capitulation of the Peoples Democratic Party in neighbouring Bayelsa by the All Progressives Congress (APC) portends danger for Rivers State. He said with the defeat of the Governor Seriake Dickson-led PDP in Bayelsa, it was apparent that the “next onslaught of the APC would be to capture Rivers State at all cost.” He relived the fears when the new Amayanabo of Wakrike kingdom and prominent chiefs of Okrika visited him at the Government House, Port Harcourt. “Unfortunately, one of our states is gone to the enemies. But God will help us. For us who are from Rivers State, we should know that there will be attack on us because the enemy has entered our territory. They will attack us, but with your prayer, Rivers State will prevail,” Wike stated. The governor said while he tarries in office, anything that would promote the interest of Rivers State would remain his drive. According to him, “you can be my sister state, if you want to take what belongs to Rivers State, I will not agree. I will not sell Rivers State for any cost. Let us be our brother’s keeper.” Wike stated that his government belongs to all Rivers people and not for any particular group in the state, lauding the Okrika people for the role they played during the last elections “The role you played during the last elections showed that when you give your support, you give your support. People should be known for something. If you give your word, you give your word. In my entire political career, I have seen that when Okrika people say they want to do something, they will do it. You are different and I commend you, “ he added. The governor warned the people against bearing arms, saying that it negates the principle of peace. To him, the only reason why people get arms was because the “Nigerian Army is now part of elections in Nigeria.” He charged the monarch to use his position to promote peace and development in Okrika and appealed to him to carry all interest groups along. Wike explained that the state government would approach the House of Assembly for the amendment of the name of the stool to read: “the Amanyanabo of Okrika “ as requested by the traditional ruler. Responding, King Alfred Sementari Abam congratulated the governor on his re-election and confirmation of his victory by the Supreme Court. He said his return was on account of his outstanding performance and projects’ delivery. The monarch also thanked the governor for the recognition granted his stool after the court judgment. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .