 Photo: VOA  It was learned that the complainant, who resides in Peaceland Estate, Giwa via Oke Aro, Ogun State, in August, bought some crates of the Beverage from a retailer at Giwa for commercial purpose, but as a result of complaints from some of her customers who alleged stomach ache after drinking the beverage, she was compelled to examine the drinks properly, and to her astonishment, a number of the drinks contained unwholesome contents. Gbamuyiro said: “Upon the said examination, it was discovered that some of the drinks contained dirty objects like feathers and greenish objects, despite being cocked. One of the customers, Mr. Daniel Adinoyi who also took the drink was rushed to Havis Hospital, where he was diagnosed with stomach infection as a result of poisoning from the drink. Adinoyi has been demanding refund of his medical expenses of N142, 000 from me on the ground that the contaminated drink was sold by me. “Aside this, the incident has driven my customers away and now, I am experiencing low patronage, which has led to the loss of daily earnings due to the negative effect the development has caused.” She noted that the company’s sale of the contaminated drinks sparks of negligence, which is actionable. It was learned that on September 12, 2019, a letter of complaint was sent to the company and was duly received but there was no response from them. Another letter was written through her lawyer Ademola Adesina of Ademola Adesina & Co, through which a meeting was organised for the two parties at the company’s bottling plant, located at Oregun on October 17, though she was represented by her husband, Mr. Gbenga Gbamuyiro, but no agreement was reached. She is, therefore, demanding for the payment of N5million, as compensation for losses and ill health suffered by her customer, warning that failure to do so, they would file a suit against the company. When The Guardian contacted the Senior Legal Manager (Operations & Compliance), Obinna Chima, he directed the reporter to their head office, on the excuse that he was on leave. At the office, The Guardian met the Legal Private Advisor, Mrs. Giwa Amu, who showed keen interest in meeting the complainant, but the meeting with Mrs. Gbamuyiro and the patient, Adinoyi ended in a deadlock. When The Guardian later contacted Chima on the position of the company, he simply replied: “I am not in a position to speak for the company,” he hung up.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .