Lawyers have been tasked to implement cyber security measures to protect client information as they are prone to cyber-attacks. Experts said 71 percent of law firms in Nigeria have no form of cybersecurity protection in place, thereby exposing them to cyber attacks. Speaking at the launch of a book titled, “The Nigerian Internet Law” by Akinkunmi Akinkunmi, Executive Head, Legal, Regulatory and Compliance, Vodacom, Kolawole Fayemi, noted that to achieve real development in the nation, Information and Communication Technology (ICT) has to be a major focus. He noted that challenges facing internet penetration includes dearth of infrastructure, multiple taxation, incessant power outages, poor ICT literacy, over regulation, among others. Fayemi noted however that the economy has benefited from the introduction of the internet, especially social media, adding that there is a need for the country to embrace full economic digitalisation. According to him to avoid a chaotic nation, laws governing social actors should constantly evolve as the society grows into a digital economy to deal with issues. The author, who is the managing partner, Paragon Advisors, Akinkunmi, said that the book provides a legal background to the issue of internet in Nigeria, covering diverse issues, such as internet penetration, cybercrime, cyber fraud, cyber bullying, data protection, data privacy, patentability of software and internet elements. The book also talks about civil and criminal liability for our actions on the Internet and negligence. “Freedom of speech is free, but we need to be held responsible for our actions and inactions on the Internet. So, people are enlightened through the book on what they could be liable for, either for a criminal or civil action.“If somebody hacks into your system and steals your data, the person can be punished under cyber crime Act because the person gained access to your data without a form of authorization,” he said. According to Akinkunmi, the book serves as a guide for investors in the FinTech and e-commerce industry. And so it seeks to enlighten people about the internet and to give law students material in the absence of one. Lawyers were encouraged to be familiar with the use of the use of computers. “Don’t click on links, which would give a third party access to your information.” he advised. The book, which is recommended for internet users around the world, is an instrument of offense and defense.  Explaining, he said: “If somebody brings an action against you for cyber defamation, there are portions in the book that will tell you how to defend yourself.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .