Sequel to the bullying of a female student of Federal University of Technology Akure (FUTA) by her fellow colleagues, the university management has expelled the six students involved in the notorious act. This was contained in a statement made available to journalists yesterday in Akure by FUTA’s Deputy Director, Corporate Communications, Mr. Adegbenro Adebanjo, attributing the decision to the findings from an investigative panel. “The expulsion is sequel to the recommendation of an investigative panel which probed the incident that took place in an off campus hostel on Saturday, November 16, 2019.” Adegbenro listed the expelled students to include: Popoola Olaniyi Agboola IDD/ (300L), Oluwadare Faith Tobiloba FST ( 200L),  Nandi Yohanna Jessica IPE/ ( 200L), Ajuwon Tolani Emmanuella FAT/ (100L), Emmanuel Funmilayo Taiwo FAT/ (100L) and Alao Olabimpe Cecilia CSP/(100 L). According to him, “The expulsion is in line with the position of Page 48 of the 2019/2020 Students Handbook which prescribes expulsion from the University for students who engage in physical assault or battery on another student outside the university premises. “As a consequence of their expulsion their studentship of FUTA ceases forthwith with all its rights and privileges. The punishment meted out to the affected students is not to pander to the justifiable public outcry that greeted their odious act.” He explained further that it was “in tandem with the rules and regulations as contained in the Students Code of Conduct as stipulated in the University Handbook and oath of Matriculation which all students are made to sign and subscribe to.” Meanwhile, the University had decried the actions of the six students to their fellow colleague as barbaric and pledged to ruthlessly deal with the offenders if found culpable. Immediately the incident was reported to the management, Adegbenro had asserted that “The University Management is providing medical and counseling support for the affected student. “The University reiterates its abhorrence of any action or behavior by students  that are inimical to the well-being of others and will continue to sanction students who run foul of its rules and regulations.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .