Imo State Government has disowned an ultimatum issued by a group, under the aegis of Coalition of South East Youth Leaders, that herdsmen in the state should leave within 24 hours. “The attention of the Government of Imo State has been drawn to a report on some news media, credited to a group, which identified itself as Coalition of South East Youth Leaders, giving herdsmen in the state 24 hours to quit,” spokesman to Imo State governor Chibuike Onyeukwu said in a statement. “The Government of Imo State, under the leadership of Rt. Hon. Emeka Ihedioha CON, hereby dissociates itself and entire good people of the state from the said ultimatum to herdsmen in the state.” Onyeukwu described the ultimatum as an embarrassment to the government and people of the state, urging members of the public to disregard it. The governor’s spokesman said the group, led by one Goodluck Ibem relied on an alarm raised by the management of the Federal University of Technology, Owerri, over alleged destruction of farmlands and crops by suspected herdsmen. While efforts are being made to confirm the allegations, Onyeukwu said the Governor Emeka Ihedioha – led administration shall not tolerate a situation where individuals take the laws into their hands. He said the Imo State Government is embarrassed by the development and has taken steps to prevent the breakdown of law and order in the state. The governor’s spokesman urged the general public to disregard the report and go about their normal businesses without fear. He said the ultimatum contradicts the values of the Imo State citizens, he described “very peaceful, hospitable and have always enjoyed cordial relationship with neighbours and strangers in the state.” “Imolites are at peace with residents and have no axe to grind with anyone living or doing business in the state, as long as such transactions do not in any way violate the laws of the land or constitute public nuisance,” Onyeukwu.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .