 Vice-Chancellor of Igbinedion University, Okada (IUO), Professor Lawrence Ezemonye  Vice-Chancellor of Igbinedion University, Okada (IUO), Professor Lawrence Ezemonye, has urged medical practitioners in the country to be ‘core professionals’ while discharging their duties for improved healthcare delivery system. He stressed that medical practitioners should exhibit a high sense of professionalism to discourage medical tourism. Ezemonye stated this at the 10th Induction and Oath Taking Ceremony of newly qualified graduates of the Medical Laboratory Science programme of the university. He urged the inductees to be core professionals in the discharge of their duties, noting that they have been trained to be successful and to effectively contribute to providing solutions to challenges in the health sector. While admonishing the inductees to be good ambassadors of the institution, Ezemonye said their service to humanity remained crucial and critical in healthcare delivery. Registrar, Medical Laboratory Science Council of Nigeria, Dr. Tosan Erhabor, who performed the Administration of Pledge and Affirmation of Oath on the inductees, charged them to be effective inn their calling and responsibilities. Speaking, Head, Department of Medical Laboratory Science, Professor Humphrey Osadolor, who commended the Chancellor of the institution, Chief Gabriel Igbinedion for his foresight and contributions, said he (Igbinedion) has drastically changed the face of university education in the country. He said the institution presented 30 newly qualified medical laboratory scientists who have been found worthy in learning and character for induction and oath-taking in the 2019 set. Meanwhile, Managing Director of the Nigerian Petroleum Development Company (NPDC), Mansur Sambo, has disclosed that no fewer than 2,000 undergraduate students have so far benefited from NPDC’s scholarship scheme. Speaking at the Federal University of Petroleum Resources, Effurun (FUPRE) at the weekend, Mansur said over 2,000 students had in the last five years benefitted from the programme. He added that over 4,000 students had participated in the scholarship examinations where the beneficiaries were selected. “This is a pre-selection examination for indigent students of the company’s host communities and it is taking place simultaneously in Delta, Imo and Rivers states,” he said. Mansur, who was represented by Manager, Community Relations Department, Dahiru Abubakar, listed the benefitting states to include Edo, Delta, Imo, Akwa Ibom and Rivers states. He said the scholarship programme was part of the company’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) geared towards building human and capital development of youths, especially of the host communities. “This year, over 300 students are participating in the scholarship examinations, after which the successful students will be awarded the scholarship. The number reduced this year because our assets reduced,” he added. Speaking, Deputy Vice-Chancellor Administration, FUPRE, Professor Prekeyi Tawari-Fufeyin, commended NPDC for the initiative. “The programme is a laudable initiative, which the Niger Delta youths should take advantage of to empower themselves for the future. “Youth restiveness has reduced in the Niger Delta area, but not totally eradicated because they are beginning to take advantage and appreciate NPDC initiatives,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .