 A taxidriver fills his vehicle up with gas fraudulently brought from Nigeria in Maradi, near Niger’s southern frontier on October 19, 2019 after the Nigeria closed its border with Niger on August 20, 2019 to defend against smuggling. – The closure of the border by Nigeria has put trade at a stalemate since August 20, AFP reports. (Photo by BOUREIMA HAMA / AFP)  The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) in its factsheet on AfCFTA in the third quarter of this year, described the challenges before the country in terms of competitiveness among its neighbouring West African countries once the AfCFTA kicks off.
   
In terms of ease of doing business and ability to compete with other African neighbours in filling the supply chain, the report stated that Nigeria is likely to face severe competition in countries like Angola, Senegal, Morocco, Mozambique, Egypt and Guinea in products like toilet or facial tissues, parts suitable for use solely or principally with spark-ignition internal combustion piston, sanitary towels, plates sheets, film, foil and surface-active preparation among others.  Indeed, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) stated that it witnessed a significant drop in PMS evacuation from fuel depots since August 22nd.
  
There had been concerns about the nation’s daily fuel demand, especially when the amount used to offset subsidy payments rose as against projected income.
  
Its Group Managing Director, Mele Kyari, in a tweet, stated that the drop in demand may be connected to border closure and other interventions of the security agencies aimed at curbing smuggling, adding that the corporation will contain smuggling of PMS.
  
Hitherto, smugglers of Premium Motor Spirit, popularly called petrol, according to the NNPC, are believed to be stealing about 10 million litres of the commodity daily and selling it to neighbouring countries.
  
With petrol subsidised in Nigeria, as against the deregulated prices in neighbouring countries, it also provides an incentive for smugglers.
 
But the Chairman, MAN Export Promotion Group (MANEG), Ede Dafinone, said due to the current border situation, many companies are in dire problems, adding that significant losses have been recorded while many businesses are about to collapse.
  
He stressed that there are companies who rely on the West African market for additional sales to make profits, while those who manufacture locally in Nigeria for export have had their warehouses filled with unsold inventory.  “The best alternative means is the sea link that has been mentioned over the years, but that ship going across the coast is yet to be launched and we are waiting for that as an alternative, but even at that it is still expensive, but going forward, it is the only alternative”.
  
Similarly, the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) faulted the closure extension, describing the sacrifice imposed on businesses and the citizens as disproportionate and becoming unbearable.
 
According to the chamber, “while the concern of government regarding security and economic sabotage which informed the closure in the first place is appreciated, the effect of the exercise is perhaps more pronounced in the South West – being the financial and commercial hub – of the country and the sub-region.”
 
The LCCI noted that maritime sector investors have equally been denied opportunities offered by transit cargo destined for landlocked countries, which normally comes through the Nigerian ports.
  
The chamber’s Director-General, Muda Yusuf, said that rather than shut the borders, some fundamental governance shortcomings should be addressed as part of a sustainable solution.
  
He insisted that the nation needed to fix its institutions for effective border management and policing.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .