The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has vowed to resist any further attempt by the Federal Government to force the enrolment of its members in the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS). The union said it had already made known its position to the government and would not be forced to accept a system “not practised anywhere in the world”. ASUU’s national vice chairman, Emmanuel Osodeke, disclosed this during an interaction with journalists at the union’s 2019 Heroes’ Day celebration yesterday in Abuja. “We have made our position known to the government and they say they will get back to us; so we are expecting their reply. “We have mentioned that ASUU would not join IPPIS the way it is. There is nowhere in the world where salaries and wages of universities are paid from a central point and we believe that in line with global practice, every university should have its own structure. Every university has a governing council and it is that council that employs workers, not the Civil Service Commission. Therefore, the council must determine the mode of payment of these workers, not from the Accountant General’s office,” he said. Meanwhile, the University of Ibadan (UI) yesterday graduated 7,430 students with 241 of them making first-class honours from various degree programmes and faculties in its 2017/2018 academic session. The Vice Chancellor, Prof. Idowu Olayinka, disclosed this during the 71st Foundation Day/Convocation of the institution at its International Conference Centre, Ibadan. Bursting existing records for a new one in the school, Mary Ofure of the Department of Computer Science, who hit a Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) of 7.0, was recognized especially by the VC. While urging the students to regard the university as a springboard as well as a call to greater challenges and aspirations in life, the VC said, “There is no doubt that you will face challenges that will tax your intellectual and entrepreneurial spirit, but never give up. Do not allow any problem to overwhelm you.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .