 Petroleum minister Timipre Sylva. Photo; TWITTER/FMPRng  The Minister stated this when he inspected the 17-storey Office Complex of the Nigeria Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) and a 10 megawatts power plant in Bayelsa. Sylva said that he was impressed with the progress of work in the facility, which is seen as the tallest building in the Niger Delta region.He said: “The problem we have had over the years as a region, where oil is explored, is that we don’t have infrastructures to host events. That is why most times they host their activities in Abuja and Lagos. “Now that we have a befitting structure like this, we will now see a lot of oil and gas activities going on in the Niger Delta, which will be helpful to the people. I am quite impressed. This building is a testament to the great work they have done within the short time of their existence when compared to other organisations in Nigeria. And the 10 megawatts power plant project, that can be increased to 25 megawatts.”The minister said the NCDMB has been able to turn things around in the oil and gas industry with local capacity. “They brought me to this magnificent building, done by a Nigerian contractor. I must say I am impressed. This is a clear indication about what Nigerians can do in Nigeria. “This is encouraging for other contractors and the content. When you see local contractors could do this, they have to involve other contractors,” he said.He said the management has really shown that they know what they are doing, adding that the Executive Secretary, Simbe Wabote, who came from Shell, has brought his private sector experience to bear on the public sector. Sylva said local content was about cost reduction in the oil and gas sector, noting that local contractors charge less than expatriates. In his remarks, Wabote said the building would be completed in December this year.He said the NCDMB has trained more than 50 youths from host communities in carpentry and laying of tiles.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .