• ‘Insecurity indication of failed govt’
Considering the rise in insecurity, killings by bandits and kidnapping for rituals and ransom, this is not the best of times for Nigeria. Primate, Church of Nigeria (Anglican Communion), Rev. Nicholas Okoh, said this at the opening of the 2019 Divine Commonwealth Conference (DIVCCON) in Abuja. Stressing that the ills would have been enough to ignite an internal war, he expressed hope of the country surviving the hard times and evil people. Okoh, who expressed concern over the alleged rift between President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, urged Nigerians to pray against any challenge facing the present administration and the seed of discord at Aso Villa. “The challenge what is happening at the presidency throws to the church is that we need to go back on our knees because they are politicians and there is no way you can understand the depth of what is between them,” he said. Meanwhile, the Church of Christ In Nations (COCIN) has said that the alarming rate of kidnapping, armed robbery and other crimes indicate a failed government. President of COCIN, Dr. Dachollom Datiri, state this at the church headquarters in Jos at the 97th General Church Council (GCC). “A cloud of uncertainty regarding our lives covers the entire nation. And yet, government is acting as if nothing is wrong. This is clearly an indication that we have a failed government. “This has continued unabated. Government is saying nothing and doing nothing about it. The media is no longer reporting it, and we have all gone quiet as though the problem is solved,” he said. Datiri also slammed Plateau State government over the appointment of transition committee chairmen for Jos North, Jos South, Riyom and Barkin Ladi councils, saying that government erred in not consulting widely before making the appointments. He said the move was now threatening the peace of the state. “Government should know that as a church, we desire that they succeed, and any counsel we give is for that purpose. Clearly, it is not wisdom to avoid or reject such counsel,” he added. The COCIN president also spoke on the internally displaced persons (IDPs) in Plateau. “Despite promises by the state government a year ago, their resettlement is still a mirage. Victims of man’s inhumanity to man that occurred in many parts of Plateau last year, especially Barkin Ladi, remain in their sorry predicament.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .