President Muhammadu Buhari has said “the greatest honour Muslims could do Prophet Muhammad is to follow his shining examples of non-violence, peaceful disposition and remarkable virtues of patience.” In his goodwill message on the occasion of the Eid-el-Maulud celebration to mark the prophet’s birthday yesterday, he noted:  “Putting into practice the great virtues for which the Holy Prophet Muhammad is historically famous and revered would have a far greater impact on changing our attitudes and behaviours than the best sermons ever will. “The indiscriminate killing of innocent people, the kidnapping of female students and forcing them into marriage and conversion are contrary to the teachings and personal examples of the Prophet Muhammad.” The admonition was contained in a statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu. While wishing the Muslim Ummah a peaceful celebration, the president urged them to use the event  to renew their resolve in promoting tolerance, love, harmony and peaceful coexistence in the country. Besides, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, has called for sober reflection. In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, the speaker urged Nigerian Muslims to use the occasion to pray for the continued peaceful coexistence in the country. He urged the faithful to imbibe the good teachings and leadership qualities of the prophet. Gbajabiamila called on the celebrants to promote unity, noting that peace and unity were key to the development of the country. Also, Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya of Gombe State pleaded for tolerance, humility, modesty and generosity as exemplified by the life and times of the prophet. In a statement by his Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Samaila Uba Misilli, he admonished the leaders and the led to use the occasion to draw lessons and inspiration from the virtues of service and exemplary leadership of the celebrant clothed in peace, unity, development and prosperity of the society. He stressed the need for tolerance. Also yesterday, Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege urged tolerance, peaceful coexistence and mutual harmony among Nigerians. The appeal was contained in a statement issued by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Yomi Odunuga. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .