Scene of the gas explosion Two persons have been confirmed dead and 23 others suffering severe degrees of burns when gas exploded in Ajegunle, Ajeromi-Ifelodun Local Government, Lagos State. Investigation by Guardian reveals that a young boy and girl were found dead, while one of the victims, a female has been evacuated by the family immediately after the disaster. The male victim was yet to be evacuated when our correspondent arrived at the scene. The deceased, who met his untimely death during the explosion, was identified by his family as Damilare Afolabi. It was also learnt that property worth millions of naira was destroyed with the entire community still counting their losses from the tragic gas explosion, which ravaged the area. The gas cylinder shop in the community had exploded as a result of leakage, a source said. Further investigations revealed that the fire ignited as a result of a call being made by an unidentified resident, which escalated to other nearby shops and a bungalow behind the shops. Confirming the causality figure, the Director General, Lagos Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), Dr. Olufemi Oke-Osanyintolu, said that those who suffered burns have been evacuated to the Burn Unit, Gbagada General Hospital. He added that of the 23 persons injured, five persons including three children and two adult female were seriously burnt and currently admitted at the Gbagada general hospital. Speaking about the incident, the Director General of LASEMA, Dr. Olufemi Oke-Osanyintolu said: “Unfortunately, two children ( Male and female) lost there lives and multiple burnt casualties was recorded. The casualties were rushed to a nearby hospital for immediate medical treatment while one of the fatalities (female child) had been moved away by the families before the arrival of the LRT. “The second body met at the scene (Damilare Afolabi) was bagged by the LRT and handed over to the family. The entire area has been cordoned and post disaster assessment ongoing. He further said post disaster assessment study conducted by the LRT revealed that three children and two adult female were seriously burnt and have been taken to burns center at Gbagada by the LASEMA medical unit. “As a result of visible cracks and intensity of fire, it is advised that a controlled demolition should be carried out on the burnt structure in order to prevent any secondary incident.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .