Sonmfo Volleyball Club of Abuja won the women’s title at the Legacy Volleyball Championship held at the National Stadium, Lagos…at the weekend. Offey Volleyball Club of Akure and Sonmfo Volleyball Club of Abuja have won the male and female categories respectively of the fifth edition of the 2019 Legacy Volleyball Championship, which ended at the indoor sports hall the National Stadium, Lagos at the weekend. Offey men’s team defeated Nigeria Police 3-1 in a highly competitive encounter to emerge champions, while Sonmfo beat hosts, Legacy Women’s Volleyball Club to be crowned champions of the event. The championship, which had in attendance 28 teams comprising 16 male and 12 women teams from across Nigeria, experienced large turn out of spectators every match day as the country’s top volleyball players displayed their skills. For their efforts, the men’s champions, Offey were rewarded with N500, 000, the Police team got N300, 000 for placing second, while Legacy received N200, 000 from the organisers. In the women’s category, champions, Sonmfo of Abuja got N400, 000, Legacy smiled home with N250, 000, while Nigeria Army received N150, 000 for coming third. Speaking at the end of the championship, Legacy Volleyball Club Chairman, Kayode Ladele said this year’s event witnessed high level of competition among the teams, adding, and “more teams and top players in Nigerian volleyball participated “I am glad that new talents were also discovered, and I believe the Volleyball federation will keep monitoring their progress. “As you can see, the large turn out of spectators indicates that volleyball is getting more awareness in the country. “Part of our vision, as ex volleyball players, is to see that more competitions are played to help players be active in their chosen sport. “Getting medals after a competition gives an athlete much desire to continue giving his best; we thank our sponsors for their assistance to promote volleyball in the country,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .