“Living In Bondage” Sequel Makes ₦50 Million In First Week Charles Okpaleke’s “Living in Bondage” the sequel has been re-writing history and breaking records. The film has not disappointed its fans and has been met with rave reviews. The proof is in the pudding as the film raked in 50 Million naira in its opening week and is currently the number one film in West Africa. Living in Bondage: Breaking free is created by Playnetwork Africa @playnetworkafr in conjunction with Native Filmworks. The Exec producer Charles Okpaleke (@charlesofplay) has gone all out in bringing an exceptional story to our screens – with a successful premiere in Lagos, and the first ever drive in Premier in Abuja. A lot of work has gone into the sequel of this classic, and its evident!! Charles and his team partnered with Universal Music to put together an amazing piece of work through the soundtrack for Living in Bondage brilliantly produced and selected by aced producer Larry Gaaga. The soundtrack has 11 tracks from A list artists in the Industry (Davido, Tuface, Flavour, Waje, Omawumi, Phyno, Patoranking, Peruzzi, Duncan Mighty, Victor AD, Syemca, Reekado Banks and Skales) and is available on all digital platforms. Charles Okpaleke – Executive Producer Living In Bondage. Further-more, Charles had this to say about hitting 50 million in the first week: “It’s the Lords doing and it’s marvelous in our eyes!!! Thank you all, please keep spreading the word, without you going to the cinemas we wouldn’t push these numbers. I urge you all to go out, take a friend your family and join us in keeping alive our history, culture and heritage. Nollywood has come to stay !!!!” Charles Okpaleke had earlier announced on his Instagram page that the film was breaking records even in its first weekend. The Sequel, like the original primarily tells the story of a young man desperate for riches and willing to do anything to get it. Here, we have Nnamdi (Swanky JKA) whose quest for the good life takes him to Chief Omego (Kanayo) and Richard Williams (Nouah). As a world-class billionaire and the spiritual leader of a powerful cult known as ‘The Six’, it is expected that Nouah would live a life of unbelievable affluence and we see just that. Expect to see everything from a private jet, yacht to exotic fast cars and luxurious mansions. Familiar faces from the first movie such as Okwonkwo, Bob-Manuel Udokwu, and Kanayo O. Kanayo make appearances in this 2019 film. Here’s what the reviews are saying: Living in Bondage: Breaking free is created by @playnetworkafr in conjunction with Native Filmworks.
Executive Producer: @CharlesOfPlay
Producer: @stevegukas
Director: @ramseynouah
#Livinginbondagethesequel is still showing in cinemas nationwide.