Sir: Are discerning minds observing what I am noticing at all? The Muslims of the world are a people who are united in their discourses of political platforms to support issues in Western democracies they believe have bearings on them; that is why, over here in Nigeria, tempers of Muslims up here north were already at short leashes over the “mosque” that Governor Nyesom Wike was accused of demolishing in Port Harcourt and also the reason Nigerian Muslims cover for one another even if that means bending the law to do just that. See what happened at the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal; if it were a Christian president on the hot seat for perjury with regards to false declaration of academic qualifications, it would have been the pleasure of “learned Christian SANs” like Wole Olanipekun and others to argue for the opposition. Thus, it is not surprising that this united Islamic front could pour tens of billions of oil-dollars into lobbying and influence-buying in order to change the course of policies that have been decided in the interest of the Western country that they target. Apparently, Brexit stung the world Muslims hard and Mayor Sadiq Khan of London was not entirely discreet in his attack of Brexit. Was I surprised that, over here in my locality of Minna, young Muslim types have been expressing adulation and glee that Prime Minister Boris Johnson is not having it all his way to deliver Brexit by October the 31st 2019; it was pure joy I notice in them. No doubt, the worldwide Muslim network of political-analyses dissemination has been tuned into high gear monitoring the situation at the UK; this Muslim net know what “weaponised migration” into Western Europe is and the net likes this immensely but in Brexit the net senses a simmering subterranean anti-Muslim “take-back-our-country” kind of feeling and the billion-plus members of that net are being updated on its progress. I have always posited that Turkey was the reason for Brexit. Is anyone out there doubting me? The UK rightly fear for waves upon waves of Muslim Turkic-types flooding the Home Isles to reside permanently there when Turkey finally joins the EU if the UK still remained in the EU; this is the kind of scary scenario that a no-border Eurozone offers, getting swamped by Muslim types who will surely out-birth the original ethnically-homogeneous folks. The UK wouldn’t be here today if she was not a smart-ass Sassenach.
Sunday Adole Jonah, wrote from Department of Physics, Federal University of Technology, Minna, Niger State  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .