 I have done it…Samuel Kalu (right) seems to say after scoring Super Eagles’ second goal against the Squirrels<br />of Benin Republic in Uyo on Wednesday  The Crocodiles drew 1-1 with Sierra Leone in Wednesday’s Group L fixture in Freetown on a day the Super Eagles came from 0-1 down to beat the Squirrels of Benin Republic 2-1 in Uyo. To captain Marepe Basia, tomorrow’s match against the Super Eagles is a must-win for the Crocodiles. Though Baia will miss the match due to suspension, after being dismissed for a second yellow card in the 83rd minute in their 1-1 with Sierra Leone on Wednesday, he boasted yesterday that the Super Eagles must fall. “We have respect for the Super Eagles but I can assure our fans that Nigeria will fall on Sunday,” Basia stated after the team training yesterday. Iceland-based Kwame Quee scored for Sierra Leone in an empty stadium in the 69th minute to give the hosts the lead before Lesotho leveled up through Jane Thabantso in the third minute of the added time in Wednesday’s encounter. Nigeria leads the table with three points, followed by Lesotho and Sierra Leone, who are both on one point in second and third place respectively, while Benin Republic occupies the bottom spot. Meanwhile, former Super Eagles assistant coach Joseph Erico, has urged coach Gernot Rohr and his assistants to work more in the area of goalkeeping. “I think the technical crew needs to do more in the area of goalkeeping. I am an apostle, who believes that we have more than a million and one good goalkeepers in this country. We need to invest more time in our goalkeepers,” he said, adding that many goalkeepers should be invited and tried to know the best among them.” Erico is optimistic that the Super Eagles would get a good results against Lesotho tomorrow having stayed together for some days now. According to him, the slim 2-1 win over the Squirrels of Benin Republic would spur the players to give their best in tomorrow’s game. “The team has played together in one match and they will see the grey areas to correct. You know Nigerians like the wide margin goals of 3-0, 4-0, 10-0. But football has changed. You can’t get such score lines again, may be by chance,” he said. “I normally don’t look for an outstanding player in a game. Football is a teamwork game right from the goalkeeper to the striker. I look at a match from a professional viewpoint. “Our goalkeeper was never actually tested, unlike the Benin goalkeeper. Forget about the goal that came very early and I don’t know why people keep complaining about Akpeyi,” Erico stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .