 Buhari assented to the Bill amending the Deep Offshore (& Inland Basin Production Sharing Contract) Act, recently passed into law. Photo: TWITTER/NNPCGROUP  While some view Buhari’s failure to handover to his vice as indecorous and contemptuous, a Professor of Law, Akin Oyebode, wonders why the President seems mortally afraid that Prof. Yemi Osinbajo will always outshine him whenever the opportunity presents itself. Apart from the unfolding scenario presenting the Presidency in a mediocre light, it also smacks of distrust, and announces to the world that the level of internal wrangling going on within it was unbecoming of a united presidency. Oyebode said apart from the unsavoury image created, the President’s action indicated that he wants to cling on to power for as long as possible.
   
“It is quite obvious that President Buhari would cling on to power for as long as possible, and he is mortally scared of transferring power to Yemi Osinbajo, who would always outshine him in all fronts. I am afraid Nigerians would have to continue to live with megalomania compounded by mediocrity at the highest level,” he said. 
   
On the need to amend the Constitution to enable a vice president to automatically assume power in the absence of the President, Prof. Oyebode said the country rather needed a new home-made Constitution.  
   
Said he: “Decree 24 of 1999 masquerading as the Nigerian Constitution is worse than useless and warrants immediate jettisoning into the abyss of ill-thought-out contrivances. Nigerians deserve to be governed by a fundamental law that is not only autochthonous but also well-suited to their needs and interests.”
   
For Abuja-based Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Chief Ferdinand Orbih, Buhari performing his official roles when abroad on a private visit clearly shows that there is internal wrangling within the Presidency.
   
He said: “Apart from the legal implications of non-compliance with Section 145 (1) of the Constitution, there is the undesirable political consequence of giving an appearance of a divided Presidency to the Nigerian people. If there were no trust issues between the President and the Vice President, why would they expect the Nigerian people to trust them? You cannot radiate what you do not possess. Trust begets trust.
   
“From whatever perspective the issue is viewed, if the President is reluctant or fails to transfer power to the Vice President (VP), the implication is either that he does not trust the VP, or he has no confidence in his ability to discharge the functions of the Office of the President. The Nigerian Constitution is not written in Swahili but in our lingua franca- English language. Understanding and upholding its provisions should not be so difficult for our political actors.”  “I think the constitutional provisions are clear. The President ought to have formally transferred power to the VP. But, you and I know that we are in an abnormal, political situation,” he pointed out. 
   
However, a Lagos-based SAN, Dr. Abiodun Layonu thinks differently. He does not see anything wrong in the conduct of the President. 
   
According to him, there is no need for the transmission as the president is only away for 17 days, which is less than the 21 days constitutionally stipulated for the transmission of power to occur.      
   
Dr. Layonu told The Guardian that the Saudi trip was an official trip, while the visit to London is private, adding that it would amount to mischief to begin to read meanings by trying to join the two trips. “There is no abuse. So, what is wrong with the President working from abroad? Are we not happy that our President is working even when he is on vacation? Let us be fair,” he concluded. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .