The Federal Government has disclosed plans to provide 50 percent discount on agricultural equipment purchase at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Minister of State, Agriculture, Mustapha Baba Shehuri, who disclosed this during a visit to the Livestock House in Kaduna State, said farming equipment procured by the Ministry would be sold at 50 percent discount to show Government commitment and determination to improve farmers’ production capacity.He assured of government’s resolve to support and also make farming equipment accessible to them to achieve food sufficiency and economic growth in Nigeria, adding that it would also help actualise the food sufficiency policy and income generation of the current administration. Shehuri pointed out that the visit was basically to ensure that the staff and management team of the Ministry in the Kaduna office worked in tandem with the objectives of the Federal Government on improving farmers’ capacity towards achieving food security for the teaming population and job creation for the Nigerian youth.He said: “We will ensure that the equipment and farm inputs procured by the Ministry go directly to the people they are meant for (farmers) because they are the bedrock of government investment designed to achieve government’s policy of economic diversification and growth through the agricultural sector. He added that, “the border closure has further energized rice farmers and they are working assiduously to continuously produce the quantity locally consumed and prepare to mobilise for export in the nearest future. Today, they are smiling to the banks with the impressive sales they have recorded and this opportunity has created more jobs, not only in rice production but also livestock and other commodities.”
 
The Minister described Nigerian farmers as a very determined and hard working group, saying: “they work tirelessly even without assistance from government to improve the country’s economy, and put food at the table for Nigerian homes. We look at agriculture as an enterprising business, and we assure Nigerians of better jobs from the type of growth that will result from it,” he added. In his remarks, the North West Zonal Director, FMARD, Mathew Owolabi, described the minister’s visit as good and timely, adding that this would encourage and enhance the capability of staff in the state office and the zone in general. He pledged the support of the entire North West to work arduously towards achieving its mandate and the next level agenda of Mr. President in the agriculture sector, in terms of job creation, economic growth, and food security. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .