3 Reasons Why Kim Kardashian Is Dressing Less Sexy | Image: Youtube American media personality Kim Kardashian West has the enviable reputation of being one of the world’s sexiest women. Her status as a sex symbol had been ignited from the moment a 2002 sex tape she made had with her then-boyfriend Ray J leaked in 2007. She later went on to feature alongside her family in the E! reality television series Keeping Up with the Kardashians which seal her fate as an international celebrity. In recent times, Kim whose 2014 Paper magazine cover broke the internet, has however tweaked her style and is now dressing less sexy. And here are three reasons why: Her Husband
In a recent interview with The Cut, she revealed that her husband rapper Kanye West is not comfortable with her “too sexy” dress styles: “But I think I have a little bit. I don’t know if it’s the fact that my husband has voiced that sometimes too sexy is just overkill and he’s not comfortable with that. I listen to him and understand him. Still, at the end of the day, he always gives me the freedom to be and do what I want.” Last month, Kim Kardashian and her husband West argued about her tight clothes. It was revealed in an episode of Keeping Up With The Kardashian that West disapproved of the silicone Thierry Mugler dress Kim wore to the 2019 Met Gala saying that he didn’t like her showing her body off because it was affecting his soul and his spirit as a married man and father. Her Kids
Kim also revealed in the interview that she has had a rethink because she could not engage with her Instagram feed in front of her kids. “But I have kind of had this awakening myself. I realized I could not even scroll through Instagram in front of my kids without full nudity coming up on my feed pretty much all the time. And I definitely contributed to that.” New Role As A Criminal Justice Reform Advocate
Kim is reshaping her public image, she is now focusing her attention on business and advocating criminal justice reform. In April 2019, it was revealed in Vogue that Kardashian was studying law to pass the bar exam. In the interview with The Cut, she stated how her “crazy” dress style might affect her new role in society: “I also did think, like, okay, I’m here in the White House and then the next day I was posting, like, a crazy bikini selfie. And I was thinking, I hope they don’t see this. I have to go back there next week.”