 Mr. Uche Obi  Obi made this known in Lagos while announcing the commencement of its annual lecture series holding today, which brings together key stakeholders from across the world to discuss critical and topical themes central to the socio- economic development and industrial growth of Nigeria. He said the lecture is part of the firm’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programme aimed at giving back to society. The senior advocate is the author of a pioneering book titled ‘Class Actions in Nigeria’, which was publicly unveiled at the maiden edition of the firm’s lecture last year by Justice of the Supreme Court, Ejembi Eko, on behalf of the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN).The book is presently the only standard local text on class action in Nigeria. According to him, the theme for this year’s edition is “leveraging technology to develop and rebrand Nigeria”. “The keynote lecture will be delivered by Sir Leo Stan Ekeh, the Founder/ Chairman of Zinox Technologies Limited and Konga.com. Dr. Ernest Ndukwe, the Chairman of MTN Nigeria Plc, is chairing this event. The panel of discussants includes: Mr. Patrick Akinwutan, MD/CEO of Ecobank; Ms. Chantelle Abdul, GMD Mojec International Holdings and Dr. Andrew Nevin. Others are the Chief Economist and Partner Deal Advisory at PWC; Dr. Segun Aina, President Fintech NGR; Ms. Linda Ikeji, a leading blogger in Africa; and Dr. Umar B. Bindir, the former Director General and Chief Executive Officer of NOTAP. The theme, he said is considered topical considering the disruptive and pivotal place of technology in Nigeria’s quest for economic advancement, nation building and positive image profiling. His words: “We have gone to great lengths to assemble a stellar faculty and top executive audience in order to do justice to the theme. “The firm will also use the occasion to unveil its Doing Business In Nigeria Guide manual which has been described as the most friendly handbook for start ups, foreign and established businesses wishing to operate seamlessly in Nigeria. In doing this, the firm leveraged its advisory experiences and role as notable contributor to the IMF/World Bank Doing Business publications. “I also wish to state that this event doubles as a Business Luncheon, which allows participants meet friends and associates, and network as we approach the end of year.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .