Members of the Academic Staff Union of Universities, Bayero University, Kano has boycotted the Federal government directive to key
into the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information (IPPIS). The Accountant General of the Federation Ahmed Idris, in an advertorial last week announced that university teachers will be captured on the IPPIS beginning from November 25th, and December 7th, 2019. But ASUU in Bayero University, Kano yesterday directed members to shun the IPPIS exercise, insisted the university remain an autonomous
institution which cannot be curvature to operate under civil servant caveat. Speaking why ASUU will not avail itself to Federal government the directive, ASUU Chairman, Bayero University, Chapter, Professor
Ibrahim Barde told The Guardian that the union has made it positions on IPPIS known to the government while insisting that ASUU will not be forced to violate the constitutional provision. According to him, “ first let me emphasize that ASUU drew the attention of Government to several factors while it will not be
position to enroll in IPPIS but the government seems not ready to see reasons for that. In October when the whole thing started, we
called the government to look into laws establishing the university in Nigeria and individual universities which enrolment on IPPIS will violate. “In this Act, it is clearly stated that the management and councils of the universities that take decisions in the management and finance of the university, which means, the governing councils are solely responsible for management. And we equally asked the Federal
government to seek the interpretation of these laws and find out for themselves as at today we have not received any communication or
response whether or not they have done that verification. “ Secondly ASUU objected again based on the fact that universities are autonomous. In our agreement with the government since 1992, we had been fighting to obtain autonomy for Nigerian universities where they are dethatched from federal civil service and this is to enable universities to function effectively such that they are in sole control of their affairs including staff recruitment, financing, and other things, now bring them to IPPIS will adjourned us to civil services which means everything will now be done from Abuja,” Professor Barde said. “This will cripple the university and prevent them from functioning effectively and government does not seem to be willing to understand.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .