 Akinyele  Similarly, former Vice President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, has expressed shock at the death of Akinyele, pioneer spokesman of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) and one-time chairman of the National Sports Commission (NSC). The President also commiserated with the government and people of Ondo State, friends and professional colleagues of the departed, urging them to take solace in the lasting legacies of the former colourful minister, who also served as chairman of the National Reconciliation Committee (NRC). As a trained teacher and public relations specialist, Buhari, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, affirmed that Akinyele’s scrupulousness, discipline, and diligence were always obvious to those who worked closely with him, and his love for the country, which was zealously demonstrated through providing exemplary leadership. The President prayed that the Almighty God would grant the soul of the former minister eternal rest and comfort all members of his family. Atiku, in a statement by his media office in Abuja, yesterday, extolled his former boss at the NCS as an astute public servant and iconic public relations guru, who left indelible footprints in the Customs, Ministry of Information and NSC. Describing Akinyele, the Loboshin of Ondo Kingdom and a Knight of the Anglican Church, as affable and amiable, the Waziri of Adamawa, said he manifested eloquence and panache. “Akinyele was a great image-maker, indeed the Iroko of Public Relations, respectable mentor, sports enthusiast and a statesman of note. He was a lover of tradition and culture, a man of the people and a generous philanthropist. “The country would greatly miss this extraordinary individual who raised the import of public relations into national front burner,” he said. Atiku, while praying for the repose of the soul of the deceased, admonished Nigerians to live a life worthy of emulation by bequeathing legacies of good deeds and fond memories to generations coming behind them. He expressed his condolences to the Akinyele family and the Government and people of Ondo State, even as he admonished them to take solace in the stellar scorecard of their distinguished departed illustrious son. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .