To improve productivity, connect 2.5 million like-minded professional and provide conducive environment for enterprise to thrive, a firm, Regus has unveiled its newest centre in Victoria Island, Lagos. The second centre launch in the last four months is part of its wider strategy to bring the workplace closer to Nigerians. In Lagos alone, this will be the 4th Regus center. Speaking at the event, Executive Vice Chairman, Regus, Ayo Akinmade said the company has built an unparalleled network of offices, co-working and meeting spaces for companies to use in every city in the world. “It’s a global infrastructure built for businesses to support every opportunity. Our network of workspaces enables businesses to operate anywhere, without the need for set-up costs or capital investment. It provides them with immediate cost benefits and the opportunity to fully outsource their office portfolio.” “We look forward to having another centre next year in Banana Island and we also intend to introduce another brand of the International Workspace Group called ‘Spaces’ on the Lagos Mainland for businesses to take advantage of its products offerings,” he said. Stressing that all sizes of businesses can take advantage of the offerings as the prices can be afforded by one man businesses and multinationals alike, Akinmade stated that the demand for a flexible workspace is on the increase following the value added services clients benefit from using the products. Regus had earlier launched two new centres in Abuja and Port Harcourt in July 2019. These offices are designed to enhance productivity and connect like-minded professionals, and reduce cost of owning and maintaining an office space. Akinmade who said the Regus centre situated at V.I Waterfront is an instant global community and a place to belong, added that their network of workspaces enables businesses to operate anywhere, without the need for set-up costs or capital investment. The range of products available at Regus covers individual workspaces, lounges, co-working spaces, virtual office, meeting rooms and shared workspaces. Akinmade added that these products offerings can be accessed at any centre across the 4000 locations situated in 120 countries around the globe as a registered member for free. These centres are in airports, cities, and other strategic locations.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .