• Group tells Youths to shun violence
• NYSC boss warns corps members to be security-conscious, apolitical Kogi Professionals in Kaduna State (KPKS) says that the Federal Government has more explanations to make on the timing of its release of N10 billion to Governor Yahaya Bello few days before election day. “There seems to be more to the issue of the release of N10 billion war chest to Kogi State, so close to a decisive election, especially when one hears that a particular party could be plotting to buy up votes and election personnel at any cost.” In a statement signed by the leaders, Isa Ainoko and Mrs. Mercy Ipinmisho, the group also slammed the effrontery of thugs who dared the Inspector-General of Police (IGP) and chairman of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and attacked a governorship candidate in tomorrow’s ballot. “It is extremely reprehensible that a state that is completely lacking in all the indices of development and progress is also the state where extremely audacious thugs can attack a female governorship aspirant in the presence of both the IGP and the chairman of INEC. “It is troubling too that a government that has transparency and progressive ideals as the foundation of its populist campaign in 2015 now seems hell-bent on ensuring the exact opposite in the lives of Kogites.” Meanwhile, Participation Initiative for Behavioural Change in Development (PIBCID) has called on youths to shun all acts of violence, urging all to ensure a hitch-free election in the state tomorrow.The Acting Executive Director of the non-governmental organisation, Halima Sadiq, stated this on Wednesday during the Kogi youth conference on non-violent election. According to Mrs. Sadiq, PIBCID is implementing the programme in partnership with the National Democratic Institute (NDI), through her ‘Vote not Fight, Election no be War Campaign Project’. In the same vein, the Director General of the National Youth Service Corp (NYSC), Brig-Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim, has urged the participating corps members in the Kogi elections to be patriotic, security-conscious and apolitical in their conduct. Ibrahim gave the advice at a meeting with NYSC members at Muslim Community Secondary School, Lokoja, towards tomorrow’s ballot in the state.“Don’t allow yourself to be used by anybody. NYSC has by-laws and Nigeria’s constitution is binding on you; whoever commits any infraction would face the consequences.“You are here on national assignment and you are a national asset to your parents and to the country,” Ibrahim advised. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .