 Ezekiel Chukwu  According to The Guardian’s investigations, the boy, an altar server in All Saints Anglican church at 41 Road, had attended the first and second services in the morning and returned home on the said date but left home later in the evening for a special programme at the church. However, he was never seen alive as his lifeless body with blood dripping from his mouth and nose was found beside a swimming pool at a Club on 21 Road, FESTAC town, the next day, July 8, 2019. The father of the boy had told The Guardian, “I reported the matter to the police at FESTAC, they advised that I should come back after 24 hours. Some hours later, an Inspector of police called me asking that I should come to a Club at 21 Road. When I got there, I saw my boy floating in the swimming pool inside the compound. He was then taken to the mortuary.” More than four months after the incident, the father of the prospective computer/mechanical engineering students, Mr. Emmanuel Chukwu explained, “Since the unfortunate loss, we have been going to the police, I suspected that the security man is on the run, the people at the club said they cannot find him for now, they told the police that he has travelled.” “The security guard of the Club who was on duty that fateful day has been at large for the past four months”.Police sources disclosed that some success has been recorded in the investigation especially the arrest of a suspect in possession of Ezekiel’s phone. But the boy’s father want authorities to rejig efforts in order to get justice for the death of their son.“So far the Police has arrested and remanded one of the major suspects. Investigations are still ongoing and I strongly believe that the Police authorities will professionally unravel the mysteries behind this boys’ death. Importantly, if the security man at the club were around, he would be able to say one or two things that are useful. The security was arrested earlier and detained for two days before he was released.” Mr. Chukwu further pleaded that the Lagos State Teaching Hospital, Ikeja, should expedite action on autopsy report.He said, “They have not submitted their report to the police. I don’t know what the matter is. In addition, I believe the report of the autopsy will help a lot in the investigation. I am still giving kudos to the police that they are working hard and professionally, I believe they will do it very well to finally establish the cause of his death”. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .