• Annual General Congress in Awka postponed There are strong indications that former national decathlon champion, Brown Ebewele, may emerge as the new technical chairman of the Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN). Ebewele, a board member of the AFN, is tipped to replace Sunday Adeleye, who has reportedly been recalled by the Track and Field Athletes Union from his role as their representative on the board. A source close to the AFN board told The Guardian yesterday that Ebewele might emerge as the new chairman technical with another board member, Gabriel Okon tipped as coordinator. “We want to do away with that tag (Technical Director) and replace it with technical chairman,” the source said. “Ebewele is likely to be the new chairman and Okon will be the coordinator. He will assist Ebewele in all matters concerning AFN Technical issues.” Ebewele returned to the AFN board 19 years after he served under the administration of Tony Urhobo, who was president between 1997 and 1998. The Edo State-born Ebewele polled 31 votes in the last election, 12 more than his nearest challenger, reigning Nigerian record holder in the 400m hurdles, Henry Amike. Meanwhile, the AFN has postponed its Annual General Congress earlier scheduled to hold on Thursday December 4, 2019 in Awka, Anambra State.In a letter dated Friday, November 22, 2019 and signed by its Secretary-General, Prince Adisa Adeniyi Beyioku and addressed to all states athletics associations, the AFN said it was constrained by circumstances beyond its control to postpone the congress. “On behalf of the board of the Athletics Federation of Nigeria, I am directed to inform you of the postponement of the Annual General Congress earlier scheduled for 4th December, 2019 in Awka, Anambra state due to circumstances beyond our control.” The Guardian, however, learnt yesterday that the postponement might have been informed by the need to adhere to the constitution of the AFN and international bodies. A chairman of one of the state athletics associations in the South-South region of Nigeria stated yesterday that many of the state athletics associations were shocked when they received the message for the December 4, 2019 congress. “We knew for an Annual General Congress to be called, the AFN constitution stipulates a 60-day notice and the notice sent to us was dated November 5, which makes it just 29 days to the December 4 date. Again, the AFN board was supposed to meet before any congress. But there was nothing of such. I am happy the AFN has corrected its mistake,” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .