Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State yesterday said that those seeking to divide the people of Oyo State through religion should find other jobs to do, saying that the people of the state cannot be divided along religious lines. Makinde, who stated this while addressing the congregation at the St. Paul’s Anglican Church, Yemetu, Ibadan, during the 80th thanksgiving service for his mother, Mrs. Abigael Omojolagbe Makinde, stated that the state is too interconnected to be divided along religious lines. The governor said that some religious activists seeking to divide Oyo people along religious lines would not succeed because every home in the state has a full complement of both religions. According to him, the nature of families in Oyo State was such that adherents of different religions, especially Islam and Christianity, co-habit in the same family. He said that religion could not, therefore, be exploited as a weapon to divide the people and cause disaffection and disunity in the state, adding that though it had become clear that some people “do not want the government to succeed,” he was appreciative to God and the people for their continued support, promising that his government would continue to serve the state. “I want to greet the Aare Musulumi of Yorubaland, Edo and Delta states, Alhaji Dawud Akinola, because he is here with us today. What this means is that those who are seeking to use religion to divide us should look for another job. “As a government, we will do what is right and proper. There is no one family in this state that you won’t find Muslims or Christians. So, the issue of religion cannot divide us in Oyo State,” he said. The governor also indicated that some saboteurs were striving to stall the efforts of his government to develop the state, saying: “Some people don’t want this government to succeed. Take for example, on my way here, I realised that some people intentionally dumped their refuse on the median.” Earlier in his sermon titled “Occupy till I come,” the Venerable, Dr. Samuel Osungbeju, urged leaders to serve well so as to receive the reward of God. “Serve well and the Lord will bless you,” he said, adding that the respective positions occupied by public officers are like talents given to them by God. Osungbeju stated that though the actions and policies of the government of Makinde were being well received by the people, he urged the governor not to relent in doing good. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .