– Unveils Bob Manuel Udokwu Ambassador For Africa Unipros Solutions, a US based IT firm, has launched a software targeted at easing the bottlenecks associated with successfully running Small and Medium Scale Businesses (SMSB) in Nigeria towards enhancing accountability, transparency, and efficiency. According to the company’s representative in Nigeria, Dr. Prospect Mlemchukwu, the software, UNIPROS Solutions, would tremendously help entrepreneurs including multinationals, banks, supermarkets, hospitals, schools, service centers and other top brands on record keeping, inventory taking, accounting and auditing with an amazing ease. “With UNIPROS, your business is safe. Take for instance, before the start of business day, the software takes the record, and after the close of business, the software takes record. Thus as an employer, you can measure the efficiency and productivity of your employees from your system or tab anywhere you are. “Also, if you run a supermarket, you can record all your supplies through UNIPROS. So, by the time half of the products are sold out, all you need to do is to use the software to calculate the number of products sold and multiply by the amount it goes for. Any minus from the expected profit means your employees have questions to answer. All you need to do is to take inventory at the moment of supply and go on your way. It is a tech that cannot be altered,” he said. On the affordability of the software, the company assured that the software is very easy to apply, stressing, “It’s just software, very easy to use; it has proven a success story in other parts of the world. It’s just one step away, simply log on to www.unipros.com, you will find all the answers you want.” Meanwhile, the outfit has unveiled Nollywood star, Bob Manuel Udokwu as its Ambassador for Africa. Mlemchukwu, who spoke on the choice of the actor as the face of the Brand in Africa, said, “Just like Ndokwu, who had been in the industry for over two decades with unfading relevance, UNIPROS is aimed at helping businesses succeed with ensured longevity.” Udokwu expressed delight about the endorsement, saying, “I’m happy not just about the deal, but about an opportunity of being part of the team to provide solutions to businesses in Nigeria as well as Africa. I became more ecstatic about joining the family when I found out that UNIPROS meant well for Nigerian business owners. The software is simply a business made easy software, from Small business to Medium Scale business, the service got you covered.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .