Maryam, Sakina, and Tega, are among the writers from West and Central Africa are to participate in the November edition of the PenPen Africa Writers Residency. PenPen Africa is an African writers’ residency project featuring 12 selected writers from across Africa in two separate Pens with six residents each in Abuja and Nairobi. The name PenPen Africa is derived from the word “Pen” and in this context is used in its duality to symbolise first the process of writing and second a place of enclosure used to house particular specie. The PenPen Africa project is an initiative of the African Writers Development Trust (AWDT) holding in both Nigeria and Kenya targeted at promoting cultural integration among Africans, using literature. It is implemented in partnership with the Writers Guild Kenya, funded by Culture at Work Africa and co-funded by the European Union. The residency commenced November 1 and will end November 21. Featuring in the residency are Modou Lamin Sowe (ML) from The Gambia representing the Writers Association of the Gambia (WAG), Sakina Traoré from Cote d’ Ivoire representing Self-ish, Tega Oghenechovwen from Nigeria representing the Custodians of African Literature (COAL NG), Ngang God’swill from Cameroun representing Self-ish, Maryam Boyi from Nigeria representing YELF Foundation, and Edem Azah from Ghana representing Writers Space Africa – Ghana (WSA-G). These writers will be accommodated in Abuja for a total of 21 days. Among the activities lined up are short talks on creative writing, culture in literature, editing, Understanding the 21st Century Reader and publishing. The next residency will hold in Nairobi in March 2020. This will feature writers from East and Southern Africa. Sakina, and Tega, are among the writers from West and Central Africa are to participate in the November edition of the PenPen Africa Writers Residency. PenPen Africa is an African writers’ residency project featuring 12 selected writers from across Africa in two separate Pens with six residents each in Abuja and Nairobi. The name PenPen Africa is derived from the word “Pen” and in this context is used in its duality to symbolise first the process of writing and second a place of enclosure used to house particular specie. The PenPen Africa project is an initiative of the African Writers Development Trust (AWDT) holding in both Nigeria and Kenya targeted at promoting cultural integration among Africans, using literature. It is implemented in partnership with the Writers Guild Kenya, funded by Culture at Work Africa and co-funded by the European Union. The residency commenced November 1 and will end November 21. Featuring in the residency are Modou Lamin Sowe (ML) from The Gambia representing the Writers Association of the Gambia (WAG), Sakina Traoré from Cote d’ Ivoire representing Self-ish, Tega Oghenechovwen from Nigeria representing the Custodians of African Literature (COAL NG), Ngang God’swill from Cameroun representing Self-ish, Maryam Boyi from Nigeria representing YELF Foundation, and Edem Azah from Ghana representing Writers Space Africa – Ghana (WSA-G). These writers will be accommodated in Abuja for a total of 21 days. Among the activities lined up are short talks on creative writing, culture in literature, editing, Understanding the 21st Century Reader and publishing. The next residency will hold in Nairobi in March 2020. This will feature writers from East and Southern Africa.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .