 Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki . Photo; TWITTER/GOVERNOROBASEKI  Obaseki said this yesterday when he delivered his speech at the 2019 plenary session of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Edo State Chapter, held in Benin City. The governor, who said he did not meet any developmental plan for the state, stressed the need for continuity of projects and plans of government in terms of development, saying that there is much to be done in Edo State. “I didn’t meet any developmental plan for Edo State. When Samuel Ogbemudia was the governor of the state, he developed a 20-year plan for the state. The plan helps to look into the future of the state in terms of development and growth. “By the grace of God, I will leave a 30-year plan for Edo State. This will enable citizens to know what to expect in the state in terms of development and growth at the emergence of any administration and subsequently know how to demand for it,” he said. The governor, who applauded CAN for their support and prayers for his administration, which has contributed positively to the development of the state, attributed the peace and development in the state to the good working relationship between his administration and the Palace of the Oba of Benin, His Royal Majesty, Omo N’Oba N’Edo Uku Akpolokpolo, Oba Ewuare II. Obaseki said: “Three weeks to my inauguration, the Oba of Benin was crowned and working with the traditional institution, we were able to bring development to the state through the disbandment of CDAs and the introduction of government actors in revenue collection. “We pay salaries as at 26th of every month. I have instructed chairmen of local councils to ensure from 1st of January 2020, council workers also receive their salaries on the 26th of every month. Pensioners receive their pension as and when due and they don’t protest again. We have fought the scourge of human trafficking and have now brought dignity to the citizens of the state. I am governor today to give hope to Edo people.” However, CAN Chairman, Bishop Oriname Oyonnude Kure, has admonished all irrespective of political differences to join hands with the governor to ensure a progressive Edo State. In another development, Edo State Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Dan Orbih, yesterday said that the rift between the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole and Governor Obaseki could not be resolved politically. Orbih, who spoke with The Guardian in Benin City, said resolving their political difference in the interest of Edo people was germane and such could only be achieved with external intervention from leaders of the opposition PDP since the ruling APC leadership has failed in resolving the feud between the two politicians. “I want to use this opportunity to invite Adams Oshiomhole and Mr. Godwin Obaseki to come before me so that I can resolve their political differences in the interest of Edo people. I have seen that theirs is a party where they cannot settle internal issues. “I have seen that external intervention for the good of Edo people cannot be ruled out as a way out of the present political quagmire we find ourselves. So, I am prepared to step into their problem and resolve it amicably for the interest of Edo people. It is for them now to accept my open invitation to resolve their problems.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .