 The Director General, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Musa Yusuf  He said what can turn the economy around is business and that is made possible when both local and foreign businesses deliver products and services that meet needs of individuals, organizations and the government in the society. Yusuf spoke at a business summit in Lagos where two automobile firms, Asia-Africa International FZE and LAC Trucks and Parts Nig. Ltd. joined forces to introduce hybrid truck brands, IVECO Genlyon and IVECO Kingkan, in Nigeria.
Themed ‘Wheels of wealth 2019 business summit and trade show,’ stakeholders in the automobile, logistics and ancillary services sector had the opportunity to inspect the hybrid trucks while expressing optimism that the vehicles will transform the haulage sector. Participants, who were mainly industry stakeholders, commended the quality of the trucks. They declared that the trucks would transform their businesses given its affordability, quality and after-sale services which foreign products lack in Nigeria. They also discussed solutions to other challenges in the industry with a call to the government to sustain its progress in the ease of doing business and strengthen the creation of enabling environment for businesses. The Managing Director, Asia-Africa Int. FZE, Li Yong, explained that the target of the hybrid trucks is to offer unique services that will fill the logistic gap in trucking business in Nigeria and Africa. He pointed out that with the combination of the strength and quality of IVECO engine which is a globally acclaimed brand and Chinese chassis, the hybrid trucks deliver the best of Italian and Chinese products to Nigerians. “The combination of IVECO engine and Chinese chassis brings benefits of durable engine and strong chassis at a lower price,” he said. The Managing Director, LAC Trucks and Parts, Femi Olushakin, pinpointed to stakeholders that the trucks were engineered to function with unusual strength, adding that users have nothing to worry because they won’t break down on the road like others. According to him, the trucks were engineered to provide solution to the infrastructural deficit in the logistics sector in Nigeria.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .