Are Kylie Jenner And Drake Friends Or Lovers? Photo: Elle Following her breakup from Travis Scott, a number of dating rumours have trailed American makeup mogul and billionaire, Kylie Jenner. First, after she was spotted outside a studio that her ex-boyfriend Tyga was recording, rumours surfaced that she was hooking up with him. Jenner quickly dispelled the rumour in a tweet: “The internet makes everything 100 times more dramatic than what it really is. There was no “2am date with Tyga”. You see me drop two of my friends off at a studio that he happened to be at.” Clearly undone with her, internet users have now linked the 22-year-old mother of one to Canadian rapper Drake. The rumours surfaced after Jenner was spotted at Drakes’s 33rd birthday party last week at Goya Studios in Los Angeles. She was also seen at the rapper’s Halloween party in West Hollywood on Thursday. Drake has always been a family friend of the Kardashian-Jenner family for years. The “God’s Plan” rapper even performed at Jenner’s Sweet 16 party in 2013. “He and Kylie have been spending time together recently,” a source tells PEOPLE. “They’ve been friends for a long time and Drake is very close to the family.” As far as the rumour goes, sources close to the pair told TMZ that neither Jenner nor Drake are spending any “romantic” moments together. Jenner has reportedly been spending more time with Travis Scott since their split. Sources close to the pair revealed to TMZ that they are maintaining a good friendship and plan on a lot of quality family time together during the upcoming holidays. Jenner and Scott reportedly decided to take a break from their relationship in October, because of different priorities. The makeup mogul wants to get married and have a second baby, while Travis is focused on his career. In the meantime, they have agreed to co-parent their daughter Stormi. Jenner started seeing Scott shortly after her breakup with Tyga went public. Tyga and Jenner dated on and off for over two years before breaking up in 2017. It is interesting to note that Jenner is not the only one from the Kardashian-Jenner clan to be linked to the ‘Views’ rapper as her older sister, Kim Kardashian has also been alleged to have had an affair with him. Kim who is married to the rapper, Kanye West quickly shut down the rumours saying she has never slept with Drake at any point in her life. At the time of being accused, West and Drake were at loggerheards and a relationship between Kim and Drake would have caused a major scandal.