 Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa. Photo: TWITTER/AIOKOWA  Dr. Okowa noted, “PCC has the great potential to produce much better outcomes in a cost-efficient manner, reduce system errors and increase patient satisfaction that would radically alter the current unfavourable perception of our healthcare system by the majority of the public.”  “Our patients ought to be respected and treated fairly because, saving lives is not just the cure of an ailment, it is the total wellbeing of the patient, who must be a friend and partner in the healthcare process.”
 
He continued: “The structure of the PCC must be such that encourages the participation of all while enabling the patient to fully share in the decision-making process as the PCC model is enhanced when roles of team members are clearly spelled out in a way that is empowering and invites accountability. The PCC focusses on the patients’ satisfaction and their perception of good quality as indicators of quality healthcare.”.
 
The governor also said that the National Health Summit would shape and influence the national conversation on healthcare system in Nigeria, observing that “NMA deserves commendation for its drive and passion to improve medical practice in the country for better patient care and health outcomes, as well as canvassing for standard operative environment for its members and other healthcare providers”
 
“In line with global best practices over the years, NMA has continued to impress with its robust advocacy, training, and development of its members as well as engaging in corporate social responsibility through public enlightenment programmes, especially with regard to communicable diseases.”
 
President Mohamadu Buhari represented by the Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, on the occasion,  stated that patients expect to be accorded full confidentiality and respect, saying, “the patient must be kept updated to the nature and possible complications of his treatment and patient dignity must remain sacrosanct.”
 
President Buhari also observed that loss of confidence in the hospital was the cause of medical tourism, assuring that the federal government will open conversations with doctors and nurses to improve healthcare delivery.
 
Earlier, the Chairman of the  occasion,  General Yakubu Gowon had expressed hope that the  summit will bring more suggestions to improve the Nigeria health sector, while NMA President, Dr. Osahon Enabulele, said “All the disadvantaged communities within the Commonwealth must be given a voice and foundations to take health care  systems in the Commonwealth to a new direction”.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .