Former Chairman of Kwara State chapter of All Progressive Congress (APC), Chief Iyiola Oyedepo, has alleged the existence of four unnamed factions within the party in the state. In a chat with The Guardian in Ilorin, Oyedepo said the incumbent leaders of the party in the state should promptly harmonize the groups towards giving the people quality governance. According to him, ‘’I can confirm to you that four basic groups made up what is today called APC in Kwara State. It is therefore left for the leadership to urgently make us cemented so that Kwara people could reap the fruits of their labour.’’APC Kwara recently won electoral battles over People’s Democratic Party (PDP), led by the former Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, thus taking over the political leadership position of the state. But alleged internal wrangling within APC in the state seems to be taking its toll on the pace of governance within it. The state governor, AbdulRahaman AbdulRasak, though has taken some proactive measures since his assumption of office some six months ago, but political analysts opine that the pace could have been faster if the party had been ‘’a united family.’’ Already, commissioner nominees, who had been cleared by the state’s House of Assembly about four weeks ago are yet to be assigned portfolios by the governor. Sources said the seeming delay could be due to the governor’s readiness to please all the existing factions within the party. Besides, it was gathered that the governor wanted direct supervision of some sensitive projects ‘’in order to cut down costs’’ before apportioning portfolios. However, state chairman of APC in the state, Bashiru Omolaja Bolarinwa, said the party in Kwara remains an indivisible entity, adding, ‘’if there is any issue we know how to resolve such.’’Oyedepo said he does not nurture any ill-feeling against anyone in the party, noting that he fought for the electoral victories in the state, ‘’without any expected benefits to show for it.’’According to him, ‘’Our mission was to unseat the age-long hegemony of Saraki and to ensure that such a structure would never come back again. So, we are fulfilled and things will be getting better for our state. We are not aggrieved with anyone.’’ To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .