 Dickson  Odd Settings
OBSERVERS saw the November 16 gubernatorial poll in Bayelsa State as one which the PDP had itself to beat, not minding the spirited efforts put up by the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) to capture the state on previous occasions, particularly in 2015, when it fielded a former governor and current Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva.
   
In the 2019 general elections, the opposition was able to capture one senate seat. That feat came up as a pointer to the creeping climate of suspicion and misunderstanding among the leaders of PDP in the state. Without knowing it, the loss of Bayelsa East Senatorial District, which curiously is the same district of former President Jonathan, was the first potent sign and symptom of the deep malaise within Bayelsa PDP.
  
It was therefore not surprising when Bishop Degi-Eremienyo Biobarakuma clinched the Senate seat in the February 23, 2019 National Assembly Election. For the first time, PDP, which usually brags of Bayelsa as its iron-clad base had to split the National Assembly positions with the opposition APC.
  
At the end of polling, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) returned two Senate and House of Representatives seats apiece to PDP, while APC had one senate and two House of Representatives seats for its efforts in the 2019 election.Watchers of Bayelsa politics hinted that the relationship between Governor Dickson and Dr. Jonathan was no longer as smooth as when the latter was in office as President, but the governor was quick in dismissing such insinuations as the products of wicked imagination of political jobbers and enemies of the state.
  
But, the rupture in Bayelsa PDP under Dickson’s watch seems to have started immediately after the former President lost his second term aspiration to the APC, just as Dickson toyed with the idea of a succession plan that would guarantee him political relevance in the state and beyond.
    
It was perhaps in recognition of the gaps between the governor and their political leader that some eminent PDP stakeholders from Bayelsa East, including Senator Clever Ikisikpo, Nadu Karibo, Azibola Omekwe, Fini Angaye, Nadari Banigo and a former council chairman of Ogbia council, Innocent Kaku, defected to APC shortly after the 2015 election.  
  
Senator Ikisikpo, who spoke on behalf of the defectors at the APC National Secretariat, then, expressed their belief that the state would be better represented under the federal ruling party, even as he accused Governor Dickson of “under-developing the state.”
   
As the defectors left, Governor Dickson must have felt relieved, since in his thinking those were not ‘aboriginal’ Ijaws, as such they amounted to so little politically in his reckoning. Some of his loyalists regretted that instead of getting down to know why such caliber of politicians should be turning coat at a crucial period in the state’s history, especially the closeness of some of the defectors to former President, the governor trudged on.
  
Later developments within PDP were to prove Dickson’s resolve to take his political destiny in his own hands and carve out a ‘future’ for himself independent of Dr. Jonathan. As the leadership crisis in PDP broke out, Dickson was said to have sided with Senator Ali Modu Sheriff, who displayed uncommon disdain for the former President when he stormed out of a meeting convened by Jonathan in attempt to resolve the logjam.  Strange Allies, Unsafe Future
LIKE Dr. Jonathan when he quickly placed a concessionary call on General Muhammadu Buhari after the March 2015 presidential election, Governor Dickson did not wait to see the final resolution of the November 16, 2019 governorship election, especially in the light of the various litigations trailing the pre and post-electoral processes.
  
The governor explained that he set up the 41-member transition committee headed by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Mr. Kemela Okara, in line with the stipulations of the 1999 constitution and “in readiness for the inauguration of the incoming administration in the state.”
   
In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Fidelis Soriwei, Dickson maintained that the governorship poll was a charade, stressing that regardless of what might be the fall out of “the several initiatives being taken by the PDP, there was still need for a proper handover process to be initiated.”  Lessons To Southeast Governors
PRIOR to the 2019 general elections, the South/South and Southeast geopolitical zones stood out as the last bastions of the erstwhile ruling party, PDP. But at the build up to the election virtually all the governors in the Southeast succumbed to a political deal brokered by certain chieftain of APC to stagger votes from the area in such a way to afford the ruling party’s candidate to garner atleast 25 per cent of the votes cast during the presidential election to ensure spread.
   
Observers say that that political mathematics has continued to give the impression that the Southeast governors are not committed to the PDP, but their political interests. By 2023 most of the governors, except the Imo State governor would be serving out their constitutional two terms.
  
There are indications that while some have shown interest to migrate to the Senate, there are those who could be lured to try their lucks with the presidential contest, just as virtually all would want to pursue their succession plan to preserve their political future.If ultimately the loss of Bayelsa stands, analysts believe that the Southeast governors would be forced to rethink the plan to impose successors and respect the will of the electorate. It is also believed that that realization must have informed recent denial by the Southeast zonal chapter that none of the four PDP state governors was contemplating defection to the ruling APC.
   
Younger brother to the Ebonyi State governor, Chief Austin Umahi, who is also the National Vice Chairman (Southeast Zone) of PDP, dismissed as misleading the claims by a shadowy Ohanaeze Nd’Igbo youth wing that two governors from the zone have finalized plans to join APC.Although speculations have continued to make the rounds that the Ebonyi State governor, David Nweze Umahi, has been hobnobbing with leaders of APC in Abuja, the governor has continued to deny such a possibility.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .