 [FILES] Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State.  The parents told the panel, sitting at high court premises on Miller road, that majority of the children were reportedly missing between 2015 and 2017. Governor Abdullahi Ganduje instituted the Justice Wada Umar Rano-led panel of inquiry to investigate the misery behind the incessant report of missing children in the state with a view to finding lasting solution to the menace. Ganduje’s action follows the recent rescue of 10 children at slave camp in Onitsha, Anambra State after being kidnapped in Kano. Appearing before the panel, one Barrister Mrs. Lilian Dangana reported the missing of a 31-year-old Sunday Omole since May 22, 2018, at the premises of Federal Government College, Kano.Barrister Dangana, a vice principal of the college, revealed that Omole’s disappearance has left the school’s management in deep worries. According to her, “ Sunday Omole is our computer science teacher and indigene of Benue State. He was transferred to Kano not long ago due to some personal issues he complained to me about. Before he got missing, he had complained that he noticed some people were after him. “Few days later, he was reported missing from the staff quarters in the college. We reported the case to the police and we have check almost everywhere in Kano. Our appearance before the panel is to seek government intervention for his where about”. Also, 39-year-old mother of five, Zainab Ibrahim narrated how his 4 years old son, Ja’afar Bello got missing at their Bridge quarters since 2017 and his whereabout is still unknown. The case of a 3-year-old Kamaludeen Lawan who was reported missing since 2017 was also brought before the panel. Reporting the incident, his 33 years old father and carpenter, Zaharadeen Lawan, revealed that his little boy got lost at a wedding ceremony while in company of his mother.The emir of Kano, Mohammadu Sanusi has suggested jail sentences for parents of the missing children, accusing them of negligence. The emir’s recommendation was however greeted with mixed reactions. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .