 Chairman INEC, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu  Concerned  Nigerians led by Deji Adeyanju and Coalition in Defence of Nigerian Democracy and Constitution led by Ariyo Dare have charged to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to use next week’s governorship elections in Bayelsa and Kogi state to correct the abnormalities recorded in the 2019 general elections. In a letter entitled ‘Bayelsa and Kogi States: An Urgent Appeal’ submitted to the INEC chairman, Mahmood Yakubu, the political pressure groups expressed its belief in the commission’s ability to redeem its image despite speculations about politicians arming thugs for the exercise. Adeyanju said the aim of the letter was to express concern on the coming governorship elections in the two states and to state that the scheduled polls offer the commission a great opportunity to right the wrongs of the 2019 general elections, correct the mistakes of the past and improve on the gaps identified by local and international observers. “This is INEC’s first outing after the last general polls, which fell below the minimum standard for conducting a credible election in our estimation and as confirmed in the post-election reports of notable organisations. Hence, we wish to encourage and task the commission to put in place strong mechanisms that will make the two elections to be adjudged as free, fair and credible,” he said. Dare, on his part, said, “It is equally important that the commission declares its intention on the use of card reader and manual accreditation for the forthcoming elections. This is crucial, as it would show the commitment of the commission to transparency and accountability, as well as help reinforce trust in the electoral process.” Meanwhile, the Kogi State Command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) has denied knowledge of 37 thugs wearing its uniforms in the state.It said that the corps had a mechanism of fishing out fake personnel where they exist.
 
In a statement in Lokoja yesterday, the Public Relations Officer (PRO)) of the command, Alex Agiri, urged the people not to panic over the reported importation of 37 thugs in NSCDC uniforms entering the state through Agenebode in Edo State to cause election violence.He commended the press for the timely information on criminals and promised to treat the alert with all seriousness while warning those with predatory instincts to leave the state or be ready to meet their waterloo. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .