Killing Them Softly by Martin Agbonlahor, a UK-based Nigerian lawyer and journalist, is not just a seminal book onwomen’s rights in Nigeria but also an, exploration into cultural anomiearising from injustice against women.
   
The 28-chapterbook is devoted to Martha Clifford’s challenges and how she breaks the glass ceiling. She is not just the conscience of her society but a voice for the oppressed women and others in Africa.
   
Agbonlahor takes his readers through the cultural practices and beliefs of his Benin background, giving them opportunity to have a look at the destruction of the female genitalia. He  x-rays, in a polaroidic manner, happenings in the country, where poor leadership has given root to injustice, abuse of human rights, bribery and corruption, religious intolerance and all sorts of social vices and economic woes. It is also reflection on other Africa countries where such ‘mis-governance’ is elevated to art.  ‘‘Therefore, so long as there are still these stark inequalities, there will always be toes to be stepped on, and we shall courageously continue to step, and in fact, thump on them, until these toes develop gangrene or feminine rights are respected in Nigeria.’’   
   
Agbonlahor will surely earn the recommendation of anyone reading the 318 pages novel for telling his story from the stand point of a feminist. He succeeds in sustaining interest in his novel, a ‘faction’ by choosing to adopt the story telling technique rather than use mere polemics and socio-jingoism employed by many of the feminists or promoters of feminism.
   
Reflecting on the road destiny has taken her through, she says of the transformation of her life from a local village girl to an internationally recognised feminist and human rights crusader,sheexpressesprofound  joy and is hopeful of early change.
This is a book every Nigerian, especially the women and human rights activists should read to understand properly the plight of women and the oppressed and seek to banish it through concerted efforts as Martha Clifford and her team seek to, drawing many followers to their fold in the process. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .