General Overseer, Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Enoch Adeboye (right); Assistant General Overseer, Northern Region, Elijah Odeyemi; and Pastor-in-charge of The Throne Room Parish, Tunde Benjamin-Laniyi during the church’s programme in Abuja…yesterday. PHOTO: Lucy Ladidi Ateko Vice President Yemi Osinbajo will come out stronger from the political challenges he is facing at the presidency, says the Assistant Provincial Pastor for Youth, North Province 6 of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Tunde Benjamins-Laniyi. The pastor in charge of The Throneroom Parish noted challenges as part of life with no exemption, adding that one’s faith in God would make him an overcomer. In an interview with journalists after a special church service which had in attendance the General Overseer of RCCG, Enoch Adeboye, yesterday in Abuja, the cleric described Osinbajo as a man of so much faith in God. His words, “Everybody faces challenges; they are part of human life. Everything works together for good for them that love God. There is time for everything; time to cry and time to laugh. Nobody, no matter how highly-placed, is exempted from challenges. But the beauty of it is that at the end of the day, because of your faith in God, you will be able to overcome. So the vice president will overcome the challenges and will come out stronger.” He decried the high level of nepotism and tribalism in the country, calling on Nigerians to demonstrate love that transcends all barriers and ethnic sentiment. Earlier, wife of the General Overseer, Mrs. Folu Adeboye, told the congregation not to lose their peace irrespective of what is happening in their lives. She assured the church that once God was not absent in their lives, they would emerge victorious. In his sermon, Adeboye told the worshippers that any man who had attempted or is attempting to throw them in the Lions den would be destroyed. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .