• Order suspension of NIN by JAMB
• Urge review of fuel ban on border towns The House of Representatives yesterday resolved to halt further consideration of the 2020 budget of Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs over the appointment of an interim committee to manage the affairs of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). The lower legislative chamber also urged the Senate to stop further action on the ministry’s budget over the “illegal appointment.” The resolution followed a matter of public urgent importance on the urgent need to stop the “illegality in the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC)” moved by Ossai Ossai. Leading the debate, he told his colleagues that the appointment was at variance with the agency’s enabling law, stating that the most senior director in the commission ought to replace the acting Managing Director that was sacked by the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio. Ossai said the haste with which the minister constituted the three-member panel gave room for suspicion.
He noted that since the Senate had approved the appointment of the 15-man board members sent by President Muhammadu Buhari for composition of the commission, the interim committee constituted by the minister should be disbanded. Ruling on the motion, Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila directed the House Committee on NDDC to investigate the matter and report back in two weeks. Besides, the lawmakers have ordered the stoppage of the mandatory use of National Identification Number (NIN) for Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) applicants until 2021. They also asked the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) to establish more registration centres to capture more persons. The decision followed a motion of public importance moved by Zainab Ahmed at plenary. Also yesterday, the lower legislative chamber enjoined the Nigeria Custom Services (NCS) to review its ban on the supply of petroleum products to border communities in the country. Adopting a motion sponsored by Sada Soli, the House declared that the measure contravenes the provisions of the Customs and Exercise Act (as amended.) To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .