  Music producers work with a plethora of sounds from everyday existence. Mundane dins and screeches can be isolated and digitalized and mixed in the most innovative ways to make the music that we all consume. More fascinating is the knowledge that every sound carries with it, a musical note that can be explored in numerous dimensions. And that’s why this next development is enthralling: The creative folks at LOUIS XIII Cognac have a new entrant into the most innovative use of everyday music. In a new project titled “One Note Prelude,” they explore all the dimensions of the ‘G Sharp’ music isolated from—wait for it—the clinking of glasses during a hearty toast to life. ‘One Note Prelude’ composition is a pioneering project that brings together a renowned Jazz composer and advanced robotics to create a performance. Performance. When two Louis XIII  Cognac glasses are clinked together to make a  toast,  they produce a very specific sound – a clear, extended G‐sharp note. ‘One Note Prelude composition explores the multi‐faceted nature of this distinctive sound with a specially commissioned piece of music written by the Paris‐based Israeli pianist Yaron Herman, who composed a one‐note symphony using only G‐sharp. “The symphony has a complex simplicity. It’s just one note, but with many dimensions – and many revelations. The idea that one note, like one drop of LOUIS XIII, can evolve over time and reveal itself was something that I found fascinating,” Herman says about the composition. Things get more enthralling when you explore this ‘clinking of glasses’. The one‐of‐a‐kind piece written by  Yaron Herman begins with a single piano note, which cleverly draws you in. The piano is then joined by a string quartet playing the same note, but at different octaves and using contrasting rhythms, the individual instruments adding texture, structure and harmony to the composition. A violin provides the main melody, while a second violin and a viola add colour and harmony.  A cello adds a rhythmic bass line, bringing structure to the melody, which rises to a crescendo. And where does the significant toast come in? The ‘One Note Prelude’ composition embraces future technology to recreate the perfect G‐sharp sound thanks to a pair of specially choreographed robotic arms come together, in time with the music, to make a unique toast with two LOUIS XIII cognac glasses. The robots are going to give precisely the right angle and the right speed to make the toast and to get that sound. “Tasting LOUIS XIII cognac is all about the aromas, the depth of flavours, the texture and, of course, the sound. When you toast two glasses together you get this long, drawn‐out note,
Which is part of the overall experience”  says Ludovic du Plessis,  LOUIS  XIII  Global  Executive  Director.  “One composition not only pays tribute to the musical note but also expresses the complexity that can be found in a single note, as an echo to the tasting of just one drop of LOUIS XIII Cognac.” These unique robots’ arms will be made accessible to the public from April 2020, the unique robots’ arms will be displayed in the LOUIS XIII Boutiques first in Singapore, Beijing and Xi’an, and then will travel the world.