 [FILES] Chief David Lyon. Photo: TWITTER/APCBAYELSA  Thousands of faithful defiled the rain to throng the Ox-Bow Lake Pavilion venue of the rally for Lyon and his running mate, Senator Eremionye Degi, as early as 10:a.m. to welcome the national leaders. Speaking at the event, Oshiomhole stated that with the one man, one vote mantra of his political grouping, the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) would be history at the weekend. He said: “On Saturday, David Lyon will win the election. I feel delighted that under the sun, under the rain, we can see the elderly women and men that waited for this rally to commence because of Lyon. “Sylva just reminded us of the outgoing governor. “We believe in the principle of one man, one vote, and with this in mind, the outgoing administration is history.“ The Minister of State for Petroleum, Timipre Sylva, said desperation had set in the camp of the opposition, stating:  “They have gone to every court in the land to try to discourage us but the APC is more powerful than they think.” Other who spoke at the mega rally include the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godwill Akpabio, governors of Osun, Isiaka Oyatola; Katsina, Aminu Masari; Kebbi, Atiku Bagudu; and Mohammed Badare. They lamented the “darkness and poverty that pervade the state.” Lyon, in his remarks, assured Bayelsans of 24-hour electricity, infrastructure development and robust security. Meanwhile, the Ijaw Leaders Forum has declared its support for the standard-bearer of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Douye Diri, and his running mate, Senator Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo. The leaders submitted that their “victory at the November 16,2019 governorship election in Bayelsa will turn around the fortunes of the state for good.” The pan-Ijaw group also gave the assurance that the citizens could hold the duo to account for their stewardship. Leader of the forum, Timi Ogoriba, communicated the position yesterday in Yenagoa. Besides, some Niger Delta ex-agitators have also pledged support for Lyon and his running mate. Speaking on behalf of the former freedom fighters, Victor Ben Ebikabowei (aka Boyloaf), stated that their decision was informed by Lyon’s grassroots orientation. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .