 APC National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, paid a visit to the President of the Senate, Distinguished Senator Ahmad Lawan. Photo: TWITTER/SPNIGERIA  It expressed this during the confirmation of Justice John Tsoho as the Chief Judge of the Federal High Court (FHC) and Justice Benedict Kanyip as President of the National Industrial Court of Nigeria (NICN). Senate President Ahmad Lawan said that the country’s judiciary was not as active as it should be and as such should be given the necessary support to discharge its functions. He explained why they needed to also have the better capacity. “The National Assembly should work with the executive to create a better working environment and, of course, create a situation where they will have more hands to deal with the numerous cases. “They are overwhelmed, (hence) they need our support,” Lawan said. This was coming just as the Senate Committee on the judiciary lamented that the judiciary had become corrupt because of paucity of funds. The confirmation of Justice Tsoho followed a report submitted by the Chairman, Senate Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters, Sen. Michael Bamidele, who recommended the confirmation. Meanwhile, the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, has told the Senate that President Muhammadu Buhari can govern the country from any part of the world. Oshiomhole, who spoke when he led members of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party to visit the Senate president at the National Assembly, however, refused to answer questions from journalists on the face-off between him and Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki. Noting that President Muhammadu Buhari has done the needful by signing the Deep Offshore Inland Basin Production Sharing Contract Act Bill into law in the Nigerian House in London, Oshiomhole said, “It shows that wherever the president is, he is presiding over Nigeria, and with the benefit of modern technology and so on, we have passed the Mongo Park era. “Signing it into law in London, for me, also means several statements, namely that, whenever national interest is involved, the president is on duty. Wherever he is, he presides.” Buhari, who left Saudi Arabia on Saturday where he spent five days on an official trip, moved to the United Kingdom for a private visit.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .