Federal Road Safety Corps Wednesday said the service’s commander Wobin Ayuba Gora was quoted out of context on the use of Google Maps app while driving. Media reports claimed that Gora said the FRSC has outlawed the use of the app while driving. But the commission said there was no truth to those reports. Although it reiterated that the use of mobile phones in whatever form is prohibited, FRSC said Google Maps should be activated before “setting the vehicle in motion” to forestall loss of concentration. “The Corps wishes to state that the Sector Commander must have been misquoted and his statement outrightly misrepresented because the Federal Road Safety Corps as a technology-driven organisation is not and has never stood against the use of google map by motorists,” the service public education officer, Bisi Kazeem said in a statement on Wednesday. “According to the writer, the FCT Sector Commander while delivering his ember months address stated that driving with the aid of Google map using mobile phone is a serious traffic offence.” The commander was quoted in media reports saying the law forbids motorists from using mobile phones in any form while driving, as it can lead to an accident. But Kazeem said the commander was just enlightening the public on the position of the law on the use of phones while driving. “The statement he made during the flag off buttresses the position of the Corps, which is that any driver who intends to deploy the use of Google  map while driving must have it set on the phone before embarking on the journey, not while the vehicle is already in motion as this could be dangerous to the driver and other road users, and can lead to road traffic crash,” Kazeem said. He said this was stated because, available records have shown that the use of phones for whatever purpose be it text, voice calls, chats, browsing, setting Google Maps to find a location while driving could be distractive and can easily lead to loss of concentration. Kazeem noted that these actions by drivers have led to many auto crashes with attendant loss of lives and properties. “On the strength of this, the Federal Road Safety Corps wishes to reiterate its position on use of phone while driving as a dangerous and hazardous road traffic behaviour which has led to unwanted and avoidable road crashes,” Kazeem said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .