In a rather macabre and vexatious manner the Ninth Senate, already opprobrious in the eyes of the Nigerian people, further dug itself into the dungeon of infamy when it proposed and gave a second reading to a bill, which prescribes the death penalty for anybody found guilty of hate speech. The bill ‘‘National Commission for the Prohibition of Hate Speeches (Establishment) Bill 2019’’ was proposed by Senator Sabi Aliu Abdullahi (APC Niger State) who incidentally is the Deputy Chief Whip of the Senate. Across the country, there has been public outrage and outcry about the retrogressive and insensitive character of the men and women who occupy the National Assembly on matters that affect the people. 
 
What spirit moved the proposers of the bill to prescribe the death penalty, the people ask. What laws have the Senate passed to curb the fatal level of corruption in the country, that criminal malaise that has made the country a laughing stock in the comity of nations? Has life become so cheap to our legislators that the first line of punishment is the termination of life? Are there no extant laws that can be invoked to punish offenders? What happened to libel, slander laws, cyber-crime act, etc? Once again, we are at odds with the leadership of the Senate for giving space to such an obnoxious bill!  There was a report last night that the framers of the obnoxious hate speech bill have removed the death penalty provision in the proposed law. That is not enough. The bill should be killed in public interest. The bill is out of sync with the spirit of democracy and ought not to have been written in the first, and having been written it ought not to have come into the public space. 
 
Nigerians are appalled that some proven thieves and fraudulent politicians have got away with blue murder after raping the nation by excessive pillage. Some who had cases pending against them still got appointments from the Federal Government. These are persons who need to face the long arm of the law with stiff punishments. The Senate should make laws that will protect the people from the rapacious actions of their so-called leaders.  We are certain, though we do not recommend it, that if a stiff law had been passed to check fraud there would have been reactions from the people. But how can such laws be passed by a legislative house that has people facing trial for fraud sitting in the supposed hallowed chambers?       
 
We call on the Senate to rise to the lofty ideals behind making laws. Lawmakers ought to be above board. The hate speech bill is designed to drive fear into citizens and the opposition. To be sure, the commission, if approved, will be tale guided by the executive arm of government just as the anti-corruption agencies are beginning to become attack dogs of the incumbent APC government. Rather than help the spirit of democracy, the hate speech bill is the result of a warped mind, a mind locked in the horrible days of military dictatorship when a decree made it an offence for a newspaper to publish any material that could embarrass a government official even if the information was true. If the Senate wants to retain a modicum of respect, they should simply perish the thought of passing a hate speech bill. That bill is a blight on the majesty of democracy in the most populous black nation on earth.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .