Lyst Most Powerful Dressers 2019 | Photo – Harper’s Bazaar Australia Thanks to the ‘Meghan Effect’, the Duchess of Sussex , Meghan Markle has been crowned the most powerful dresser of 2019. Markle takes the title from billionaire make-up mogul Kylie Jenner who comes in at number seven on this year’s list. The 2019 Most Powerful Dressers list was released by Lyst in its Year in Fashion report. Each year, fashion search platform Lyst releases its Year in Fashion report where it outlines the top shopping trends for the year just gone, as well as the public figures who had the most impact on our wardrobes overall. Using data from over 104 million shoppers, as well as page views, sales of six million products from 12,000 stores and media (both traditional and social) coverage, the site is able to determine the biggest fashion moments – and figures – from the year. Markle topped the list as it is gathered she had a huge influence over shoppers, with her fashion choices leading to 216% increase in people Googling similar outfits every single time she steps out for a public engagement. The Club Monaco dress she wore when she and her husband, Prince Harry wore when they appeared with their baby, Archie saw a 570 per cent search increase. The dress also sold out within 24 hours of being identified. The black and white J. Crew skirt the Duchess wore for a private meeting with South African politicians, lawmakers and government officials was also super popular – searches for the brand rose 102 per cent as a result. Timothee Chalamet came in second on the list. According to Lyst, the embellished Louis Vuitton bib he wore to the Golden Globes this year was the most impactful at the event. He followed this up with a sequin hoodie at the The King premiere in London which resulted in a 192 per cent increase in searches for men’s hoodies. Perhaps most impressively, after the actor wore a Haider Ackermann suit, searches for the brand spiked by a whopping 806 per cent in the following week. Closing the top three was actress Zendaya. The Greatest Showman star brought a 54 per cent increase to Tommy Hilfiger with the real-life Cinderella huge blue gown from the brand. Her impact was also felt at the 2019 Emmys when she wore Vera Wang. The stunning green corset dress caught the attention of literally everyone, and created a 33 per cent increase in searches for the brand. British singer, Billie Eilish and rapper, Cardi B placed fourth and fifth respectively. Check out the full list below: