 Eric Otieno. Business Development Manager, Kenya Bookings Africa.Com (left), Uzo Akumah, General Manager, Bookings Africa.Com, Fade Ogunro CEO/Founder Bookings Africa.Com, Saada B. Abdalla. Country Manager, Kenya, Bookings Africa.Com and Tshque Harcharan. Country Manager, South Africa Bookings Africa.Com in Lagos…recently  This is even as technology has taken over most and heavily influenced how we do things. Buying and selling goods and services have been made even simpler with the use of technology, for example. It is in light of this fact that new entrants into space, Bookings Africa, a leading pan-African marketplace has leveraged technology to disrupt and revolutionise how talent in the lifestyle, entertainment and media industries across Africa is sourced. Founder and CEO, Fade Ogunro, announced the launch of the app and the successful completion of the company’s latest fundraising round. She divulged that Bookings Africa’s mission is to unlock the earning potential of young entrepreneurial Africans and monetise their latent skillset. Through the app, users can search for a variety of talent, compare their transparent prices, book online, pay securely and provide ratings and reviews for services across Nigeria, South Africa, and Kenya. Bookings Africa currently offers over 14 talent categories including make-up artists, photographers, DJs, hair stylists, and social media influencers with plans of increasing to over 40 categories and expand to other countries across Africa by December this year. Available on android and iOS, since its launch in April 2019, the app has signed up over 2,000 freelancers and served clients such as Coca-cola, Anap Jets, May D, Film Factory and The Luxury Lifestyle Market.
      
Ogunro told The Guardian: “I believe Africa is the future, yet, the biggest problem we face is unemployment. We want to tackle this issue by enabling millions of freelancers to gain recognition, monetise their talent and build a sustainable career on their own terms. This means you can create your personal profile, upload your work portfolio, set your own rates, availability and manage your business better with guaranteed payments all at the tap of a button. “Working in the media industry as a producer for over a decade, I found many limitations when trying to source creatives across the continent. The process is currently expensive, time consuming and extremely inefficient. I have dedicated the last three years of my life creating this innovative tech-enabled solution that will reshape Africa’s workforce. This is my vision for Bookings Africa; an Africa that works.” Mayowa Ayodele, Chief Investment Officer of UnicornGroup said: “We are excited to partner with Fade and her team who have built a strong technology-led and scalable business that is harnessing and monetising the latent talent of Africans across the continent. We believe that investing in Bookings Africa has the potential to revolutionise a highly fragmented industry and positively impact lives. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .