 President, Women in Renewable Energy Association, Mrs. Anita Okuribido (left); Market Research Specialist, Greenville LNG, Pradipta K. Mitra; Head of Sales: East and West Africa Clarion Events-Spintelligent, Ade Yesufu and Marketing Manager, Jubaili Bros Engineering, George Kai at the briefing on forthcoming future energy conference and expo in Lagos…yesterday. 			PHOTO: FEMI ADEBESIN-KUTI  According to them, there is a need for the government to make the power sector attractive for investment through policy frameworks and by embracing new technologies. Citing that Nigeria was lagging behind Niger and Cameroon in renewable energy adoption, the stakeholders expressed optimism that the nation will catch up rather than depending heavily on the grid when there are opportunities in the off-grid sector. Preparatory to the Future Energy Nigeria conference and expo scheduled for November 12 and 13 in Lagos, the stakeholders added that there was a need to advance conversations in the sustainable energy sector. The Head of Sales, East and West Africa, Clarion Energy-Spintellingent, Ade Yesufu noted that investors’ confidence needs to be gained by overhauling the value chain for competitiveness. Themed, “Advancing partnerships and solutions for a sustainable energy economy”, Yesufu said the event, while focusing on the value-chain of the power sector, also seeks to provide solutions to the nation’s power challenges as well as empower youths for improved capacity development. Marketing Manager, Jubaili Bros Engineering, George Kai explained that the initial cost of adopting the renewable solution as well as access to funding are critical issues limiting the growth of renewables. Considering the cost of the project at the initial stage, Kai urged interested off-takers to explore financing options as people are sceptical about their capital expenditure. Explaining further on the quest to bridge the energy gap in the country, Pradipta K. Mitra Market Research Specialist Greenville LNG, observed that the claim that electricity can’t be supplied nationwide would be erased when the government promotes more investment to harness LNG in Nigeria, adding that if such projects can be replicated, Nigeria’s power problem would gradually be solved. Mitra further explained that LNG offers huge cost savings as against other fossil fuel products, adding that the firm is already supplying LNG to many industrial customers, adding that 200 tankers have been deployed, with 100 more tankers underway. President Women in Renewable Energy Association/Former President of the Council on Renewable Energy, Mrs. Anita Okuribido said the biggest consumers of electricity, (ministries, departments, and agencies) in the country are not willing to pay, adding that there is a need for smart energy delivery system in the energy value chain.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .