 The Super Eagles will begin training in Uyo for their AFCON qualifier against Benin Republic… on November 11. PHOTO: AFP.  Super Eagles’ Coach, Gernot Rohr is expected in the country on Saturday to start preparations for Nigeria’s 2021 African Cup of Nations qualifier against Benin Republic. The Super Eagles will meet the Squirrels in their first game of the AFCON qualifiers in Uyo on Wednesday.Super Eagles’ Media Officer, Toyin Ibitoye told The Guardian yesterday that the players are expected in the country this weekend, while the coach will arrive n Saturday. He said, “Gernot Rohr will arrive from Egypt, where he went to support the national U-23 team’s preparation for the African U-23 Nations Cup.“The players will start arriving from Saturday after this weekend’s matches in Europe. Many of them are expected in on Sunday, but the rest will come in on Monday. “Already, the NFF and the Akwa Ibom State government have made arrangements for the Eagles’ stay in Uyo.” Meanwhile, the Confederation of African Football (CAF) has picked Senegalese official Issa Sy as referee for next week’s 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualifying match between Nigeria and Benin Republic in Uyo.Sy will be assisted by compatriots Nouha Bangoura (assistant referee 1), El Hadji Abdoul Aziz Gueye (assistant referee 2) and Fatou Thioune (fourth official) at the encounter scheduled for the Godswill Akpabio Stadium, from 5pm.
 
The Day 1 clash in the qualifying series will also see Munkaila Nassam Adam from Ghana as match commissioner while Kria Samir Bouzareah from Algeria will play the role of referee assessor.Nigeria will welcome back skipper Ahmed Musa from injury, with defenders Kenneth Omeruo, Abdullahi Shehu and Bryan Idowu, as well as midfielder Mikel Agu and forward Samuel Kalu also returning.
 
The Super Eagles, bronze medallists at the 32nd AFCON finals in Egypt this year summer, will then fly to Maseru on November 15 for the Day 2 clash with the Crocodiles of Lesotho, billed for the artificial turf of the Maseru-Setsoto Stadium as from 6.00 p.m. Lesotho time (5.00 p.m. Nigeria time) on November 17.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .