 Tiwa Savage  A celebration of African music culture, the gig will see renowned music artiste perform live on stage to thousands of music lovers in a high-octane environment. These artistes will include top music stars from across the 5 African regions, African artiste in the diaspora, past AFRIMA winners, as well as past and present nominees of AFRIMA. It will be an evening of energetic non-stop performances from both A-list and upcoming African artiste.
 
Gracing the AFRIMA Music Village stage is sensational Afropop diva, Tiwa Savage, the ‘49-99’ crooner, who recently bagged a recording deal with Universal Records Group, United States. Ghana’s dancehall artiste, Stonebwoy; South Africa’s Nasty C, Sho Madjozi and Master KG will also join their African counterparts on the 6th AFRIMA Music Village stage. For a first time AFRIMA appearance, the international Congolese music veteran, Awilo Longomba will bring his extraordinaire energy and sensual dance moves to play. Also performing is Sauti Sol from Kenya, Rayvanny from Tanzania, Daphne from Cameroon; Anna Jone from Angola, Toofan from Togo, Aminux from Morocco, and Kanvee Adams from Liberia. 
 
In addition, Nigerian artistes, who will be entertaining their fans on the 6th AFRIMA Music Village stage among others includes 2Face, Teni the Entertainer, Ycee, Pasuma Wonder, Rudeboy, Saheed Osupa, Small Doctor, Skiibi, Niniola, Falz, DJ Spinall, and Mr. P. Others are; Dj Cuppy, 9ice, Fireboy, Atawewe, Harrysong, Q.dot, Obesere, Slimcase, Mr. Reel, Mayorkun, Reminisce, DJ Neptune and many more.
 
Speaking on the upcoming event, Project Lead and Head of Media, AFRIMA, Sola Dada, said, “It is no doubt this year’s AFRIMA Music Village attendees will leave with utmost fulfillment. The decision by the International Committee of AFRIMA to change venue and take the concert closer to the grassroots in Agege Stadium, Agege Lagos, where die-hard and loyal music lovers are, is to avail them the opportunity to experience their favorite African stars perform live on stage. From its inception, the concert has catered to its audience creating an experience that stays with them for a long time.” The previous edition of the gig in Ghana, which was staged at the 100,000-capacity Independence Square in Accra, left the crowd yearning for more. And from the plans on ground, the 6th edition, according to Dada, will surely surpass previous editions. The 6th AFRIMA Music Village will be lit up with outstanding, invigorating, and high-powered musical performances. This event will be broadcast live on DSTV channel 198, GOTV channel 29, Africa Independent Television (AIT), Raypower FM Network, amongst over 84 stations across the world. Meanwhile, the 6th Main Awards show will once again honour and reward relentless African creatives in the music and culture industry, who have shown dynamism in the production and expression of their crafts. There would be special recognition and honour to veterans of African music whose personality and musical arts have contributed immensely to the advancement of the music and creative sectors of the continent and brought about positive international perception of African heritage and arts.
 
Aside from the Music Village, other lined up events scheduled to precede the main awards ceremony include the 6th AFRIMA Welcome Soiree on Wednesday, November 20; the 6th Africa Music Business Summit (AMBS) on Friday, November 22, at the Grand Ballroom of Eko Hotels and Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos from 8.30 a.m.; and later on the same day is the exclusive 6th AFRIMA Nominees Party. The live broadcast of the main awards ceremony begins at 7.30 p.m., while the live red carpet with the display of all the glam, glitz, and high fashion opens at 4.00 p.m. South Africa-born Pearl Thusi and British-Congolese Eddie Kadi will host the main Awards Ceremony . With proven top notch screen and stage experience in the media, entertainment and comedy industry within and outside Africa, these two African superstars will bring their expertise and experience to bear while anchoring the programme of events at the star-studded Africa’s biggest music night. AFRIMA is a youth-focused music property driven by the African Union to celebrate Africa, recognize and reward the works and talents of a myriad of African artists across generations. AFRIMA is committed to the stimulation of conversations among Africans and between Africa and the rest of the world about the potentials of the cultural and creative economy for real enterprise on the continent, contributing significantly to social cohesion and continental integration.