Students of Soundhope College danced around the field on Wednesday when their team came from behind to beat Roshallom Schools 3-2 in one of the opening games of the on-going Lagos Inter-Schools Cup organised by Wonderland Sports. Roshallom started like a house on fire, scoring two quick goals through Nwachukwu Dozie to the delight of their fans. But Soundhope gradually picked up the tempo with Rhaman Osunbiyi’s two goals and another strike by Muhammed Adegoke turning the table and helping them to their first win in the competition since 2017. In other games, TTVM of Ikotun beat Latmos College, also of Ikotun 1-0, while Renics Schools defeated Ferscoat Schools 4-1. In the girls’ category, goal-shy Elibel Schools Abesan Estate lost 0-1 to Renics Schools in the opening game. Despite dominating play, the Elibel Tigresses failed to convert their chances, including a penalty kick saved by Renics’ goalkeeper, Jessica Itua. They had earlier hit the woodwork in the first half. In other games in the girls’ category, Mila Schools Ayobo and Roshallom played a goalless draw, while TTVM defeated Latmos 2-0.
The action continued yesterday in the primary schools category. Meanwhile, the organisers of the Lagos Inter-Schools Cup have confirmed that 32 schools are competing in the fifth edition of the annual competition for private schools in Lagos and Ogun states, which began on Monday in five zones. The competition features primary and secondary schools. Coordinator of the competition, Tayo Adeyemo said the schools in Zone One are playing their matches at Roshallom Schools, Gowon Estate and Platform schools. They are Doregos Private Academy, Ferscoat Schools, Saint Bernadette School, Elibel College, Abesan Estate, Roshallom College, Great Platinum Schools, Baruwa Ipaja, Icclaim Schools Ayobo, Soundhope College, Redeemers Primary School and Mila School, Ayobo. The Zone Two venues are Ifako Stadium and Ilepako field with Brighthope College, Amplifier College, Starfield, Folbim and D&D College competing for honours. Effortswill Schools, PrimeTouch School, Badore, Razeeva Schools, TTVM Schools, Idimu, Excel College, Latmor Schools Ikotun and Ephraim College are all in Zone Three with Effortswill College Ejigbo as venue. In Zone Four are Grandmates, Christ Hill, Ostra Schools, and Queensland Schools with matches billed for Christ Hill, Grandmates Schools and Ostra School Courts. Adeyemo revealed that the students are competing for honours in football, volleyball, swimming, chess, scrabble, basketball, and athletics, adding that all participants are expected to be at the match venues with their accreditation tags. The top three students in each event will get medals while the top three schools will smile home with electronic items, he said, adding, “the Inter-Schools Cup is meant to revive the healthy school sports rivalry and also keep teenagers away from social vices.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .