 General Overseer, Foursquare Gospel Church in Nigeria, Rev. Samuel Aboyeji (left); his wife, Olabisi and President International, Rev. Glenn Burris, during service of grace and installation of Aboyeji, as the new General Overseer of the church, at Ajebo Camp, Ogun State…last Sunday.  Aboyeji, who took over from Rev. Felix Meduoye, who piloted the church’s affairs since 2010, said he was committed to pursuing and promoting God’s heartbeat, which is mission. He said: “The goal of the last administration was mission through the Decade of Multiplication. We are determined to pursue mission again with greater vigour, building on the success of our predecessors. Thankfully, a good and solid foundation had already been laid in this regard.” He said the mission objective would be achieved through the following core areas of activities, but not limited to Evangelism and Soul-winning, which he promised to propagate through the fourfold message of the gospel of Jesus Christ – Jesus the Saviour; Jesus the Baptiser with the Holy Ghost; Jesus the Healer; Jesus the Soon Coming King. “We shall partner with the Holy Spirit to bring more people into the kingdom. We are seriously looking unto the Lord of the harvest to mercifully fix us into His sovereign programme for His Church in this regard. We are seeking new and effective ways of carrying on this assignment. For instance, our current policy of ‘One Man, One Soul Every Month’ will be rebranded and strengthened,” he said. Besides, he noted that church planting remains the single most effective evangelistic methodology under heaven, according to Peter Wagner. He said: “By the grace of God, we will consolidate the efforts of previous administrations in this area, and as well ensure that more churches are planted, especially among the unreached people groups in our rural, riverine/coastal, as well as hinterland communities, using our RHCHES (Riverine/Hinterland Churches Enlargement Scheme) approach.” Also, with Nigeria having a young and youthful population with the third-largest youth population in the world after India and China, he said he would continue to make necessary investment in this crop of population, using the Youth Encounter and Empowerment Summits (YES). He added: “We shall leverage on both the existence of our student fellowships in about 100 campuses in Nigeria and the youth, teens and children ministries in our churches to galvanise reaching this segment with the gospel.” While noting the strategic importance of the ministers to accomplishing God’s agenda for the church, he said his administration would give great attention to the welfare of the ministers and staff in general, through massive training and development.Aboyeji also said he would maintain relationship with other Christian organisations, including existing regional and international co-operation, as well as, maintain political neutrality in Nigeria. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .