NNPC boss, Mele Kolo Kyari The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), has charged International oil companies (IOCs), on the need to build human capacity to drive growth in the nation’s oil and gas industry, as this is the only way to domesticate what it achievable internationally. The Group Managing Director, NNPC, Mele Kolo Kyari, said: “We believe whatever can be achieved internationally, can be achieved locally. I assure you of NNPC’s continuous support and patronage. We are also counting on the support of our local and international partners, service providers as well as regulators across the industry value chain. Kyari, represented by the General Manager, National Petroleum Investment Management Services (NAPIMS), Musa Lawan, said this at the unveiling of the recently-acquired and reflagging of seven Antares and seven Inagna recently by Nigerstar 7. He said the acquisition and reflagging represents another milestone in attaining greatness in the upstream sector of the Nigerian oil and gas industry. He added that NNPC has over the years remained faithful in promoting the growth of Nigerian companies through effective processes to enable Nigerian contractors and service providers to compete in developing in country capacities to reduce capital flight. In his words, “When I assumed office as Group Managing Director of NNPC, I emphasised NNPC’s strategic aspirations to achieve 40 million barrels of natural reserves and grow oil production to 3 million barrels per day and gas of 15 million cubic feet by end of 2022.” He said the aspiration serves as an opportunity for companies ready to seize the moment to play important roles in helping NNPC and the industry to achieve the feat. Earlier, the Executive Secretary, Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), Simbi Wabote, said the flagging of the two vessels marks another milestone for the attainment of 60 per cent of Nigerian ownership of vessels in the marine sector, which currently stands at 40 per cent. Wabote, represented by the General Manager, Capacity Building, Ama Ikuru, said: “Our target is to have a fully-built FPSO in the country to drive the oil and gas industry.” He appealed to operators in the industry to fully maximise the capacity of the vessels and other vessels coming up in the industry, while also calling on local and foreign investors to invest in the nation’s oil and gas industry. He said the board had also automated its process for effective service delivery, while also reducing turnaround time. The Chairman Nigerstar7 and Nigerdock, Anwar Jarmakani, said, despite the gains of the Nigerian Content Act, and its positive impact on the Nigerian economy, there are certain areas that need to be addressed to ensure that Tier 1 Nigerian companies can secure work in recognition of their investments, competence and capabilities. He added that in the area of competitive bidding, a number of tenders and project awards have been overshadowed by the activities of pretentious companies that do not have the requisite experience, warning that these are the kind of companies that have neither the intention nor aspiration to build in-country infrastructure. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .