To avoid intergenerational conflict between the millennial and generation X (Gen X) at the workplace, experts have suggested mentoring and building a more harmonious work environment for increased productivity.
   
They argued that for an organisation to be able to mediate intergenerational conflict, it must articulate the revised mentoring module, whereby the younger and more digitally-savvy employee supports the older ones (Gen X), and at the same time, learns from them.
    
The knowledge transfer, emotional intelligence, and digital awareness, they further said, become more profound, and a win-win for the organisation.  Employees’ Voice and Rights Advocate, Gogo Anyanwu, who identified that employees at the workplace do not have a voice, argued that the millennial have given them a voice, so they now speak.
    
He said voice is an important element in a workplace, because a lot of things happen in the workplace that an employer may not know except he or she comes down to the employees’ level.
    
He said organisations that have done well and will continue to do well are those that listened to their employees, ensuring employees have voice, understand their needs and who they are, “that is how we can move forward at the workplace.
   
“There is no way we can rule out the importance of granting voice to the employees, and once you do that the sky is the limit of that organisation.
    
“It is only when you engage an employee you will know whether the employee is motivated or not, and if you don’t you will continue to run on a vicious circle.
    
“HR in Nigeria is a disaster because they have not taken time to motivate employees. Motivation is not just about money, but giving employees the free hand to do what they know how to do best, not just putting everybody in a box, saying this is how we must do it. There are several other ways of achieving the same result.
   
“The story is the millennial do not have that patience to be tied down, rather you can do things differently and finish your assignment under an hour, than the routine way doing the 8am to 5pm kind of job schedule,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .