The new Lagos State Commissioner of Police,  CP Hakeem Odumosu has vowed to keep men and officers of the Command on their toes to checkmate crimes. CP Odumosu, who officially took over from the former, now an  Assistant Inspector-General of Police (AIG) Zubairu Muazu, said his mission was to fight crime to a standstill and protect lives and property. Odumosu, who spoke during the official taking and handing over ceremony, said, “Today is not a speech-making day, but I want to assure members of the public of my commitment in the fight against crime in Lagos. “I am a believer in community policing. We are going to involve the citizens in the war against crime through community policing. “We will keep our officers on their toes, because I am here to fight crime. I can’t be awake while my officers are sleeping. I won’t take it, my officers must be awake with me. We are going to improve on what our predecessors did, especially the outgoing AIG. “I have been in Lagos. I have the wealth of experience and I am going to deplore that residual knowledge to the crime pattern in Lagos and frantically attack it. “I am coming to the table with measures to improve security in the State. The strategies are not meant to be disclosed on air , but I just want the public to partner with us because community policing is the thing and the basis of our success. I need the assistance of the public, it is a symbiotic relationship. “I repeat, I will put policemen on their toes to work round the clock. l can’t be a kerosine and expect a Divisional Police Officer (DPO) to be palm oil, they must be on the road. I am not just sitting in the office, so they must be on the road. They are my officers and we have to work together. “It is for them to do what they are paid to do.  When I say on their toes, I mean they must work and ensure that the fundamental rights of human rights are guaranteed”. Earlier, AIG Muazu called on his men and officers to give Odumosu maximum cooperation as they did to him. “The fight against crime is not CP’s business alone. The war is for everybody. You supported me and I want you to do the same too. “One of the major challenges that are still confronting the command is the issue of cultism. I want you to tackle it headlong. “Kidnapping and bank robbery are things of the past. I thank my predecessors, especially Retired AIG Kayode Aderanti CP Fatai Owoseni, and CP Edgal Imohimi, whose templates in crime-fighting that I consolidated and improved on.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .