– Praises Ugwuanyi’s leadership style Edwin Clark University (ECU), Kiagbodo, Delta State, at the weekend bestowed on former President Goodluck Jonathan its highest honour, D.Sc (honoris causa). The degree was awarded to the former president by the chancellor, Chief Edwin Kiagbodo Clark, during the maiden convocation of the university after the governing council found him deserving of the honour. ECU got its licence during Jonathan’s tenure as president. The former president also played immense role during the fund-raising to start the university. Jonathan, who was represented by the national publicity secretary of Afenifere, Yinka Odumakin, expressed delight over the university’s achievement within the short period it came into existence and praised the founder, Chief Edwin Clark, for the vision to embark on the project. Describing education as the key to national development and growth, the former president canvased massive investment in education for “our children”. He added that it was because of the vision and guidance of people like Clark that he established 12 universities during his tenure. Jonathan has also expressed delight at the uncommon leadership style of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State in fostering peace and unity among the political class in the state, irrespective of party differences. Describing Ugwunayi as a man of peace, he said the governor’s disposition in relating with members of the opposition political parties was commendable and the best approach to governance. Speaking when the governor treated him to a dinner at the Government House, Enugu, after delivering the 10th Anniversary Lecture at the convocation ceremonies of Godfrey Okoye University, Enugu, yesterday, the former president stressed that Ugwuanyi’s inclusive governance style was a rare feat other leaders should emulate to move their constituencies forward. “If you are the governor of a state, you must treat all the citizens equally, irrespective of their political persuasions; otherwise you are not a good governor,” Jonathan said. While urging members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state to continue to encourage the governor in his peace initiatives, Jonathan maintained that “we need peace and unity if we want rapid development”. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .