 Dr. Chima-Oduko signing copies of Healthy Kids Are Happy Kids while her father and professor of English, Tony Afejuku, and her daughter looks on… in Lagos  Chima-Oduko said parents and teachers could take their children or pupils through the wonderful world of health in the book with interesting characters and teach them health principles in a fun way. According to her, “With charming stories, picture games, puzzles and fun activities, this book will lay the foundation for a life of healthy living in children, both physically and mentally. It covers topics like healthy eating, exercise, healthy habits, building mental resilience and child-appropriate sex education. Give your kids a head start on success and wellbeing with this wonderful and interesting book.” While reviewing the Healthy Kids Are Happy Kids, Mrs. April Attah, praised the author for her foresight in intervening in an area of importance to both parents and children for whom she said is beneficial. According to her, “Healthy Kids Are Happy Kids is not written in the regular style with the author as an instructor. She wrote it as an onlooker, an observer, using children to champion the cause of health awareness in the book. Educators will find the book useful. She uses the voices of children so parents and adults hear what they need to say. It’s not just a book for children; parents and adults also need it to know what to do regarding their children’s health.” Book launcher, Mr. Victor Eburajolo, noted that parents should make children their friend. According to him, “The children we have today are more intelligent than heir parents. We are only wiser. Take a cue from the way they fiddle with phones. Sometimes, when kids correct us we don’t take it because we feel we are older. When they tell you something strange, don’t react immediately. Talk to them later; don’t shout at them or overreact. If you don’t constantly talk with your children you will lose them. So, what sort of child will you leave behind for your community?” In his forward, Wale Okediran, physician, author and politician, noted, “When you are a child, you believe that you are invincible and nothing can take you down—-energy is limitless and so are the possibilities of having fun. However, illness can sometimes occur. Fortunately, it is a well-known axiom that prevention is the best kind of medicine. Staying healthy is not achieved with pills, but through a strong immune system and some smart habits. Therefore this book, a worthy addition to the medical and health literature for children, is a very welcome development. Healthy Kids Are Happy Kids teaches children not only about various medical conditions, but also how to prevent them. Although principally written for children, this book is also invaluable to adults, especially parents and guardians who are expected to guide their children and wards in their healthy work through life”. The author plans to have a health programme in schools where she would teach health education and nutrition to children and teachers alike and how to identify and intervene in health situations in their environments. This, according to her, is part of her charity work towards communities so they benefit from her expertise in health practice.
Published by Kraft Books Limited, the book has six chapters and questions at the end of each chapter.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .