The All Progressives Congress (APC) has challenged Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State to render account for over N100 billion spent on the Yenagoa airport. The APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, who spoke with reporters in Abuja, claimed that the facility was of low quality that even the governor cannot fly on it. He said: “I think the media should not just take statement from people’s mouths. You know the fact that Bayelsa airport has been flooded. Is it Buhari that flooded the airport? Because the runway is below the ground level. They ought to have carried out proper survey. So, the runway is flooded with water because it was not built properly. “The truth is, we challenge him (Dickson), whether it was Buhari who asked him to inflate the contract because there are different versions of the actual cost. That contract, I put it to my dear friend and brother, Dickson, that it has entered Guinness Book as the most expensive runway ever built anywhere in the world. “He shouldn’t throw blame. But you the media should also interrogate when these people make all these unsubstantiated allegations. “So, the truth is that he (Dickson) cannot tell his people why he will spend close to a hundred billion for a facility such as that. Yet, he himself cannot land on it. “You people should not allow merchant of half-truths to get away with blue murder. Dickson must account for that money, not because of the election but he owes his people. “Look at Bayelsa State, look at the revenue it has accrued and look at Yenagoa. Look at the roads in Yenagoa. Did Buhari tell him not to use the money he gave him? Truth is that he never knew that the day of reckoning would come. So, he should keep Buhari out of it.” Also, Jigawa State governor, Abubakar Badaru, said the APC had become an acceptable party in Bayelsa State. “APC is doing wonderfully well in Bayelsa. You are all witnesses to all the rallies that have been happening in the state for both parties. I believe that success is ours.” Dickson had at his party’s ground finale on Wednesday accused the ruling APC of playing politics with airport licence for the state. Dickson said President Muhammadu Buhari deliberately refused to grant him license so as not to use the facility as a campaign issue. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .