 Timaya  For the song, Egberi Papa teamed up with producer, Kel-P Vibes, to create a heavy mid-tempo tune, with a catchy hook laced in his local dialect. The visual opens with Timaya at a confession booth with a priest to confess his obsession with the female derriere, as he sees them everywhere he goes and can’t help but ruminate over the sight. He added that his friends and acquaintances call the derriere Sili-Kon, but that he is the only one, who can say whether or not they are natural or artificial (silicon). The video features an array of beautiful well-endowed ladies, who flaunts their fleshy ‘derriere’, as they prove beyond doubt that African ladies are naturally blessed. Directed by Unlimited LA and shot in Lagos Nigeria, the video of Sili-Kon is already out today and is available on all music platforms. Born on 15 August 1980, in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, Timaya grew up as part of a large family; the youngest of fifteen children in Agip Estate, Garden City. His father was a banker and his mother was a trader. For his early education, he attended Assemblies of God Nursery And Primary School, while his secondary school education began at Nkpolu Oroworukwo in Port Harcourt. He would often break house rules to attend late-night music events. Before Timaya could graduate from school, his mother arranged for him to travel with his older brother and older sister to Lagos. After moving to the city, he gained admission into Lagos’ Ikeja Grammar School, where he eventually completed his secondary education. Timaya later returned to Port Harcourt to study Banking and Finance at tertiary level, however, he performed poorly in examinations and dropped out after first semester. He then moved back to Lagos to join Edris Abdulkareem’s hip-hop group as a backup vocalist. After three years working for Eedris, Timaya departed from the group to focus on his solo career. He began to record collaborations with fellow up-and-coming artists and made his first cameo appearance in an unreleased music video by UDX, a Lagos-based rap group. He subsequently met producer Obaksolo in Mafoluku, Oshodi, who produced his first major hit record Dem Mama after hearing him perform the acappella version. Timaya is the founder of DM Records Limited. His solo career began in 2005 with the release of Dem Mama, which also appeared on his debut album, True Story released the following year. His second album Gift and Grace was released in 2008. The Bayelsa State native gained further visibility and international prominence through his third studio album De Rebirth, released in partnership with Black Body Entertainment, and its lead single Plantain Boy, was instant hit. Both were commercially successful. He collaborated with Dem Mama Soldiers on the album LLNP (Long Life N Prosperity). In 2012, Timaya released Upgrade, which spawned hits Bum Bum, Sexy Ladies, and Malonogede. To date, his work has earned him several notable awards and nominations including four Headies Awards wins, two AFRIMMA Awards wins, one Nigeria Music Award and an NEA Award. In 2011, the Interreligious and International Federation appointed Timaya a Peace Ambassador for World Peace (IIFWP). Dr. Hak Ja Haan Moon, co-founder of the IIFWP, stated that he is “one of those individuals, whose lives exemplify the ideal of living for the sake of others, and who dedicate themselves to practices which promote the founding ideals of the IIFWP.” 