 A bad spot along Ilupeju bye-pass in Lagos 						 PHOTO: FEMI ADEBESIN-KUTI  Some of the motorists and commuters that spoke with The Guradian called on the government to urgently fix the roads rather than the granite palliative measure, which doesn’t last long.
 
The governor had declared a state of emergency on the roads following public outcry on the deplorable condition.The governor said the Lagos State Public Works Corporation (LSPWC) would be carrying out repairs on 116 inner roads across the state in addition to over 200 roads already rehabilitated by the corporation in the last three months. And in full compliance with the executive order, the LSPWC commenced aggressive rehabilitation and patching of roads to address the continuing problem of traffic in the state. Despite efforts by the LSPWC, state of roads in Lagos has been the subject of interrogation among citizens in the past few weeks. According to them, some areas are being neglected as major roads and inner streets are abandoned in a terrible state. Investigations by The Guardian revealed that some parts of the metropolis are still in lacking attention, as the roads are becoming nightmare for motorists on daily basis. For instance, from Moshalasi roundabout and Alaguntan bus stop, Ijegun to Ikotun, Ipaja-command in Alimosho have become an eyesore. Akowonjo, Shasha and its environs are also not left out, as the road linking Dopemu is also grossly dilapidated. The entire stretch of Ikotun-Ejigbo-Isolo road has failed at different points including the NNPC intersections opposite Ejigbo LCDA Headquarters, Hostel-Ile-Iwe portion, Jakande roundabout, Oke-Afa intersection, and Ejigbo junction. Along this route, the road is just hardly motorable, its streetlights, which were functioning during former administration, have now packed up. In Ajao Estate, virtually all the roads in the estate are bad. Ashafa Afariogun Street, Lateef Salami Street, Baale Shekoni Street and many more have suffered varying degrees of damage and outright collapse. In Ikeja, Oba Akran is a case of outright neglect. In Idimu, a resident, Marcus Kotila, said both state and local governments are not responsive.
 
He decried the state of Ademoye road, a by-pass road that connects Ikotun-Idimu and Liasu roads. The road, according to him, is in a bad shape despite its significance to commuters going to Governors Road, Diamond Estate and Igando. In Akowonjo, Dopemu, and Egbeda, the situation depicts the case of three forgotten communities with all inner roads deplorable, drainages dysfunctional and streetlights abandoned. Another resident in Bariga, Shomolu Local Government, Mrs Helen Oji, said part of the road network is filled with pot-holes leading to traffic to University of Lagos, Akoka, Yaba. According to her, impact of the poor road condition in households is enormous as most roads lack adequate drainage, which escalates the flooding and damage to roads.She said the congestion ultimately lead to delay in travel time, damage to vehicles and most times accidents.
 
“There is urgent need for government to formulate a good infrastructure policy that will enhance the sustainability of infrastructure over time and encourage public participation in urban infrastructure provision and maintenance,” she added. Sharing her experience, Mrs Gloria Nwafor, who is also a major user of the Mushin-Idioro road, decried the current state of the road, as it has been totally abandoned by the state government. Speaking with The Guardian, Nwafor bemoaned the neglect of a section of the road, which has eaten deep into the ground with heap of dirt from the major Idioro market taking over the road. Currently, she said that motorists ply one-way, as the other part of the road is not motorable thereby causing huge traffic on the axis.“I passed the road yesterday and it was in a huge mess. The road needs government’s urgent attention. Motorists are suffering, including passengers and even passers-by, because the walkway is being used by okada riders. “Can you imagine that between Idioro and Mushin bus top, I spent one hour, which ordinarily is not up to five minutes. I regretted plying that route,” she lamented. Checks by The Guardian showed that the LSPWC under the leadership of Olufemi Daramola has carried out some repair work. From the findings, the agency’s intervention barely scratches the surface. Bad sections of some roads in Alimosho, Agege, Isolo and Ikeja, among others have been repaired, but from all indications, the agency’s intervention was limited to major roads, leaving thousands of inner roads unattended to and creating an environment for traffic robbers to operate almost unhindered. The motorists called on the governor to ensure the ongoing road rehabilitation projects across the state are of good quality to avoid a repeat of the near complete collapse of Lagos roads before the rainy season next year. The motorists commended Sanwo-Olu for swinging into action to repair some of the roads but said that many governments initiated road repairs do not last. A motorist, Mrs Adenike Fagbemi who resides in Ikorodu commended the rehabilitation process in the area but stressed that there is need for the government to do more. She said the work is presently ongoing around Laspotech third gate towards Odo kekere, Odo nla and Ogijo axis in Ikorodu.  Agric area too is not excluded but it can get better. Though, the ongoing roadwork along third gate and Odo Kekere is causing a major gridlock as the road is extremely slippery and cars get stuck. “Not forgetting roads that link Ladega and Sabo Market… Major eyesores with deep potholes, Linked routes in Ogijo is a catastrophe same with Ijede area. Messed up!”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .