Prof. Adesina Sodiya • Urges full automation of governance activities
Computer professionals have called on government at all levels to stop patronising quacks in the sector for their supplies, consultancy, and others. Under the aegis of Nigeria Computer Society (NCS), the professionals said quacks are those who go about government’s Ministry, Departments and Agencies (MDAs), to get jobs without them being a registered member of the society. NCS said it had to cry out because the dominance of quacks in the sector is rising, which must be tackled as fast as possible. Speaking with journalists in Lagos, the President of NCS, Prof. Adesina Sodiya, said these quacks, most times ended up executing their jobs poorly, thereby rubbishing the capacities of those who are registered members and have the finesse of the job. Sodiya, in company of other executive members, stressed the importance of having professionals handle some core IT jobs, noting that they bring in their full expertise to bear on the work. “Government at all levels should know that it is critical for them to partner NCS, which has over 20,000 members, who have the skills set to deliver on any sector-related jobs handed to them,” Sodiya stressed. The NCS President also used the opportunity to appeal to the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Pantami, to ensure that governance activities go fully automated, adding even hospitals, universities are connected for efficiency, and decried a situation where several MDAs still run ‘paper’ activities, when tasks can be automated. While commending Pantami’s effort on the renaming of the Ministry, Sodiya said having a digital economy has been part of the advocacy of the Society for years. “We are happy about the new nomenclature, but beyond the name change, things must be done fast so that the purpose of it won’t be defeated,” he stated. Sodiya, who said government must work towards the full implementation of the new Ministry, informed that NCS is working on a new IT roadmap that will give the sector a huge pedestal to perform, and subsequently impact the sector, cum the economy. He posited that the roadmap will provide guide and direction for the National Assembly, especially on ICT development. ‘‘There is a need to start developing new skills in the industry such as Artificial Intelligence, Robotics, 4G, 5G, Machine Learning, among others. We need to know that innovation is still low, so we must up the ante in this regard. The new Roadmap will address these things and how we can bridge the gap and move the country forward,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .