PHOTO/Ishara S. KODIKARA Detectives attached to Ogba Police Station have arrested, one Segun Mopoderun for allegedly killing his 58-year-old landlord, Oposanwo Gbenga.It was learnt that on Saturday morning, police went to number No 3, Iyanu Oluwopo Street, off County, Ogba-Aguda Agege, after a woman made a distress call to report that the suspect had allegedly poured hot water on the 58-year-old landlord. The suspect allegedly poured the deceased hot water minutes after they engaged themselves in altercation. Police operatives said the deceased died as a result of injuries sustained. It was gathered that the suspect was arrested and immediately transferred to the Homicide section of the State Criminal Intelligence and Investigations Department (SCIOD), Panti Street, Yaba, where he is being detained Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, who confirmed the killing, said that the incident occurred at about 6.30am on Saturday. Elkana said: “The victim was rushed to hospital for treatment where he later died. The corpse is deposited at Ikorodu General Hospital Mortuary for autopsy. The suspect has been arrested by homicide detectives from the State Criminal Investigation Department Yaba. Investigation is ongoing, the suspect would be charged to court at the end of investigation”, he added. Similarly, two persons lost their lives in an auto crash that occurred at the weekend at the Masha, Surulere area of Lagos.Elkana said that the accident which occurred around 12.30 pm involved three Toyota cars and a commercial motorcycle. “This is a case of fatal motor accident involving three Toyota cars and a motorcycle at Masha overhead bridge which was reported at Surulere police station. It involved the driver of a Black Toyota Camry with registration number Lagos BDG 24 FL named Meshach Baba of number 10, Odogbolu Street off Ademola Aguda Lagos. The driver was coming from National stadium on top speed inward Masha when he swerved to another lane and as a result rammed into a commercial motorcycle and his passenger. The driver also hit two vehicles that were equally coming from Shitta inwards the National stadium. “The passenger of the motorcycle died on the spot. Name and address of the passenger are not known yet, indication showed that he might be a painter because of stains of different colours of paints on his clothes. The corpse was deposited at Randle General Hospital Mortuary, Surulere. The damaged vehicles were removed from the road for VIO inspection. The driver who caused the accident is arrested. Investigation is ongoing, the suspect” he added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .