 General Manager, Legal Services, Nigerian Ports Authority, Eniola Williams (left); Chairman, Board of Directors, Emmanuel Adesoye; Executive Director, Marine and Operation, Dr. Sokonte Huttin; Managing Director, Port of Antwerp International, Kristof Waterschoot; Belgian Ambassador to Nigeria, Daniel Dargent and President, Nigeria-Belgium Chamber of Commerce, Dr. Timi Austen-Peters during the signing of Memorandum of understanding between Nigerian Ports Authority and Port of Antwerp in Lagos…yesterday 		 PHOTO: FEMI ADEBESIN-KUTI  Bala Usman, who was represented by the Executive Director, Marine and Operations, Dr Sokonte Huttin Davies, said the agreement, which would last for five years, effective yesterday, November 27th, will also broaden technical skills and practical knowledge.
   
The MoU covers vast areas, which include infrastructure, stimulation of trade growth as well as concretising the enabling environment for the tenets of Public Private Partnership (PPP) to thrive between the two ports.The team from Port of Antwerp, led by its Vice Mayor, Annick De Rider, said they see greater future in the NPA, as it makes progress in its concession regime, thus the need for the mutually-beneficial agreements.
   
De Rider said: “West Africa takes a large share in the traffic of Port of Antwerp. It is therefore our ambition to further strengthen our position in West Africa. We aim to pass our know-how and experience. We hope that this mission will create new fruitful contacts, new connections and new business opportunities in order to ensure future growth for years to come.”
   
Ports of Antwerp is the second largest port in Europe that aims for flexibility, response to a rapidly evolving maritime market, allowing the port to continue playing roles in cooperation, adaptability and focusing greatly on digitalization.Chairman Board of Directors, NPA, Emmanuel Olajide Adesoye, said the industry expects that the two organisations would leverage each other’s expertise for growth in trade, which would result in global economic development for the two nations. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .