R Kelly’s Girlfriend Jocelyn Savage Reveals She Was A Victim | IMAGE: Variety One of R Kelly‘s live-in girlfriends Jocelyn Savage has broken her silence on her “manipulative” affair with the disgraced singer. Savage whose parents had claimed was being controlled by the singer, has accused the R Kelly of being controlling and manipulative. In a post on her Instagram page, Savage said that she has partnered Patreon, a paid content platform, to share her story on her time with the R Kelly. “I am risking my life for many others. ‪This story is 18+ and only for mature audience. I want to make sure my story is very detailed as I can remember.” She captioned the post. In her first Patreon post, Savage shared how she met the singer at one of his concerts when she was 17, describing it as “a fun experience but very mixed emotions,” adding that her impression of Kelly was he would be helping her pursue her goals to become a model and singer. “Robert would always look at me in a sexual way the first couple of times we met occasionally,” Savage wrote. Savage detailed how the Kelly told her she would be “the next Aaliyah” after he listened to her music. Kelly had briefly married Aaliyah when she was 15. She continued with details of how Kelly bought her clothes, gave her money, and in the beginning, “I had everything I needed.” “I didn’t have nothing to worry about at the time,” Savage wrote. “We also did a couple of songs together in his studio which he promised me he would release on his platform. Which never seen the day of light, Robert told me so many lies my 19 year old mind believed everyone of one them,” she shared. After a few months of living with the singer, Savage explained how things changed. “Robert started giving me commands, and making sure I call him by certain names. Like ‘Master’ or ‘Daddy’ which I didn’t really care for at the time. If I wasn’t getting paid or pursuing my dream I would’ve went home, but all of that didn’t stop just yet. But It started getting worse by day by day, he would raise his voice at me if I didn’t call him by those two names. If Robert called me I would have to reply with ‘Yes, daddy’ or ‘Please daddy’ he was so controlling.” Meanwhile, Kelly’s attorney, Steven Greenberg has released a statement claiming that Savage is “exploiting” his client. “It is unfortunate that Jocelyn now seeks to make money by exploiting her long time, loving relationship with Robert. Obviously if she were to tell the truth no one would pay so she has, unfortunately, chosen to regurgitate the stories and lies told by others for her own personal profit. We know the real facts, and it was not until the money ran out that she decided anything was wrong. Hopefully people will see it for the Obvious profiteering it is.” Kelly is currently incarcerated in a Chicago jail facing charges for sex crimes.