 Gidi Sharks of Lagos and Pepsi Academy battling for points at the Copa Lagos Beach Soccer Championship, which ended at the Eko Atlantic… on Sunday.  After the Super Sand Eagles 7-5 defeat of Brazil in their last game to emerge the second best team in the 2019 Copa Lagos Beach Championship, which ended at the weekend at the Eko Atlantic, Victoria Island, Lagos, Sand Eagles Manager, Audu Ejo has declared that his team is 100 percent focused to give a good account of themselves at the 2019 FIFA Beach World Cup. The World Cup will hold in Paraguay from November 21 to December 1.Ejo, who applauded his players for their outstanding performance at the Copa Lagos Beach tourney, said playing against big nations like Brazil, Senegal and England has prepared the Nigerian side for this month’s World Cup.He stated that the Super Sand Eagles were in the right spirit to confront any nation at the world championship. “Nigeria has the players that can outshine any team at the World Cup. Senegal has been able to excel in various beach soccer championships because they have a Beach Soccer League. “Sometimes, it is not easy to get my players to train because some of them play for regular football clubs. But I thank God that the Copa Lagos Championship has given the team a platform to prepare for the World Cup. “The team will keep working hard to be in top form before departing Nigeria for the world championship,” he said.Also speaking at the final day of the 2019 Copa Lagos Beach Championship, Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who graced the occasion with his deputy, praised the organisers of Copa Lagos for putting up the international championship in the state, saying that the tournament has over the years put Lagos State in the world map. “Sports is a vital tool of developing any nation. The Copa Lagos has helped to attract people to the state. Beach Soccer is an interesting sport that needs to be encouraged in the country. We have talented youths that can be encouraged to play the game. Lagos State is glad to be part of the 2019 Copa Lagos event,” he said. Meanwhile, the organisers of 2019 Copa Lagos, Kinetic Sports have commended their sponsors FCMB, Pepsi and Betking for their support.Nigeria, Senegal, Brazil and England and many clubs from within and outside the country took part in the 2019 Copa Lagos fiesta.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .