 Action from the Super Eagles versus Squirrels of Benin Republic 2021 AFCON qualifier in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State on Wednesday  The most enduring picture out of Uyo last Wednesday is the failure by NTA, Nigeria’s national television station, to properly bring to homes pictures reflecting the match as well as the beauty and magnificence of the most modern stadia in Africa, an edifice every Nigerian should be proud of, where the match was played and won – the Godwin Akpabio International Stadium, Uyo.  Indeed, but for NTA, Nigerians would have had to face blank screens on their television sets on the day of the match, with the impossible circumstances created by the Confederation of African Football (CAF), with only hours to go before the match, for any decent coverage to take place. It was an impossible task. NTA decided that it was more important for Nigerians to see their national team, no matter how poor the pictures turned out than to stare at blank screens in their homes.
 
The full story of what transpired with hours to go before kick-off is an unbelievable drama that shows how not to run the business of television marketing by CAF. In retrospect, everyone is left wondering if it would not have been better for NTA to decline the last-minute Greek gift to cover the match rather than take up the impossible challenge and end up burning their fingers as they just did. 
 
However, underneath every darkness are hidden some of life’s best treasures. So, rather than curse it, we should bless the darkness.
Uyo was ‘darkness’ come to NTA. Rather than dwell or lament of what happened, the station has to start searching and digging for the hidden ‘treasures’ that surely lie beneath that disappointing showing, and there are many, I can already see.
 
Television is the key to the development of the sports industry in every advanced country. The sports industry also provides the ‘oxygen’ that fuels the rapid development and income generation and profitability of television stations also. It is a matter of rub my back I rub yours. Television and sports must go hand in hand in a win-win situation. Television, however, has to take the lead in the drive for this mutual growth by providing the means of promoting, covering, packaging and marketing sports. That means having the infrastructure, the equipment, the technology, and the personnel to produce content that will attract viewership and big business to both! To achieve this requires a big investment.
 
That is what NTA should make its owner, the federal government of Nigeria, to understand. NTA can be very profitable if it can drive sports and the development of the sports industry in Nigeria. There is the economy, the market, the viewership in numbers and some level of facilities already that are not been maximally deployed even now. 
 
Where are the 10 Outside Broadcast Vans purchased to cover the Nigeria ‘99 World Youth Championship? Those vans have been renovated and upgraded at least once since then. Those vans can do basic television coverage that may not match the 28-camera coverage of ordinary league matches in Europe presently but will come pretty close if well utilized.
 
Digitalisation is inevitable for the NTA very soon. That should provide an excellent opportunity for fresh investment in new and modern equipment, training of new personnel after the huge loss of very experienced staff through successive retirements over the decades without replacement, and poaching of experienced staff at the advent of private television stations. Television is very important to all of sports, but particularly football. Television and football go together, hand in hand. The football industry cannot develop or thrive without television driving it. 
 
The good thing is that Nigerians are together now in insisting that what happened in Uyo should never happen again. From the criticisms, must come a new zeal and fresh ideas about the tomorrow of television and, particularly, the NTA. 
 
The Uyo experience reveals the weak foundation upon which present Nigerian television in sports coverage is built. 
 
New and innovative thinking must emerge from the debris of the Uyo experience in order for television, NTA and sports, led by football, to become an industry in the biggest economy, the largest market and most populated country in Africa. 
 
Television will drive proper sports development, youth engagement, and empowerment, and create massive job opportunities within the huge industry. 
 
Television will connect the dots and the links of sports with tourism, culture, entertainment, education, health, the environment, town planning and so on and so forth. 
 
The coverage of the Super Eagles matches last Wednesday is a blessing in disguise. It has ignited a review of NTA and its relationship with sports in Nigeria. We must seize the moment to kick-start new dawn for the essential romance between television and sports in Nigeria. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .