 Data Photo: HIPPO  The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Pantami, last week, issued a five-day ultimatum to the NCC to ensure that data prices were reviewed downwards. Pantami, however, backed down on this directive, following a statement issued by the Minister, claiming that the Commission had requested a deadline extension.
  
The statement, which confirmed the extension, was signed by Pantami’s spokesperson, Uwa Suleiman. While the statement failed to specify the new time-frame given to the Commission to act on the order, it, however, stated that the issues should be resolved “within the shortest time possible.”  How far can this directive go?
According to industry analysts, given that the directive was long overdue, within the context of incessant complaints by subscribers of increasing data depletion, inability to roll over, slow connectivity, among others as part of their daily experiences as far as uploading and downloading are concerned, the Minister’s directive appears appropriate. Such a directive will make the Commission to further sit tight to address consumers’ complaints regarding unsatisfactory service delivery experience.  Is NCC powered to determine retail price?
Meanwhile, part of the directive, which asked the regulator/operators to crash data price without any recourse to legal procedure, as enshrined in the telecoms laws have been described as a ministerial move that is antithetical to proper regulation of the industry to ensure sustained growth, a fact industry experts said the Minister failed to “acknowledge to demonstrate his understanding of the sector he is supervising.”
  
For instance, findings by The Guardian showed that NCC has no unilateral power under Section 108-110 of the Nigerian Communications Act 2003 to prescribe retail price.  Operators’ positions
To the Association of Licensed Telecommunications Operators of Nigeria (ALTON), telecom regulation all over the world is a process and Nigeria shouldn’t be an exception.  ‘‘So, when we work more with the minister, we can provide the evidence that seeks to ensure that the industry is regulated in a manner that ensures that services can be provided to consumers in a cost-effective manner and at a high quality of service.” Balancing the Act in telecoms regulation
Teniola further explained that there are many people who still do not have access to the Internet. “We have to be cognizant of that and that requires investments. So, the balance between attracting investments has to be measured against the reality of consumers wanting very cheap prices for data. If you make the data so cheap that consumers can afford it, an example that the poor can afford it, then it will require the necessary investments for infrastructure to be able to give them the service.
 
‘‘So you know what comes first, the investments or the reduction in data prices, you can’t have data prices reduced without the investments. The regulator needs time to ascertain how best to do this. And we encourage the NCC to continue to regulate the industry in the manner that is a win-win for everyone,’’ he noted. Nigeria among countries with the cheapest data in SSA
While the battle rages on, it is also expedient to mention that Nigeria is ranked among countries that still offer the cheapest data prices in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA).
  
The Alliance for Affordable Internet (A4AI) disclosed that although Internet data services remain high in Africa, Nigeria, Egypt and Rwanda offer the cheapest tariffs on the continent. As at the end of 2018, it ranked Nigeria as the second country after Egypt with the lowest tariff in Africa.
  
A4AI revealed that the cost of Internet access dropped globally last year, except in Africa. With Internet users on the continent already paying the highest prices for mobile data compared to average monthly income, new data from A4AI showed the average price of a gigabyte (GB) of data (relative to income) has increased over the past year in Africa while dropping or remaining the same in other regions.
   
The Cable.co.uk put the price of mobile Internet (1GB) in Algeria at $5.15; Tunisia $2.87; Cote d’ Ivoire $4.17; Togo $11.76; Kenya $2.75; South Africa $7.19; Zimbabwe $75.2; Chad $23.33; Egypt $1.49, and Nigeria $2.22. Focusing on bridging the infrastructure gap
Perhaps, what should be the focus of the Minister is to address all the issues around challenges being faced by the telecoms operators in order to drive investments
  
Operators currently incur more cost of running their operation arising from multiple taxation and regulations, the indiscriminate shutdown of their BTS, vandalism, which takes time to fix the affected facilities, denial or high cost of Right of Way (RoW), all of which are slowing down faster infrastructure deployment which concomitantly affects service delivery.
  
Other challenges confronting the operators include theft of their equipment at sites, power problem, where two heavy-duty generators are used by the operators to run each of their over 39,000 BTS across the counties.
  
According to Adebayo, “Our operations depend on power 24/7. All these are cost elements before you determine the price. Why are other manufacturers in other sectors not being asked to reduce their prices by their respective Ministers? So, operators also run their businesses within the same ecosystem and where prices of diesel and everything is going up and they, therefore, cannot price below the cost of providing the services. Otherwise, they will run out of industry sooner or later.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .