Your eyes are the window to your soul and your brows are the chic curtains that not only shape your face but also give it structure. In fact, eyebrows are the beauty of every facebeat and the more on fleek they are, the more perfect your facebeat would turn out. However, drawing the right eyebrows is a skill, one that quite a number of people are yet to get the hang of especially makeup beginners. This is not to say it is totally impossible, instead, it is just a case of “practice makes perfect”. The more you practice drawing your eyebrows, the better you get and the fewer mistakes you make. As a tip, here are 5 steps to drawing the perfect eyebrows: Starting Off: When drawing your brows, make sure to start off by brushing your eyebrows into a neat shape using a brow brush. Next, go on to draw out an outline in the exact shape of your natural brow and define the inner and outer ends. Once this is done, you can then fill in your brows. Make sure to not paint your entire brow from beginning to end, instead focus more on the arch and the root of your eyebrows. Also, remember to use tiny hair-like strokes when filling in your brows instead of thick ones. This rule applies to using either an eye pencil or brow wax. Be sure that your brows are drawn in the same direction your hair grows. They would look very natural when drawn this way. Using concealer. Photo Simply Tami Keep The Tail Of Your Brow In Check: One problem people often have with eyebrows is the tail of the brows. Overextending the tail of your brows can create a droopy effect, drawing your face down and causing you to look sad. Naturally, your eyebrows stop at a place which lifts your face and this should be maintained. To measure where to end your bows, place a brow pencil diagonally at your nostril in line with the side of your eye. Where the pencil hits your brow bone is where your eyebrow can be extended to and should end without it looking fake. Jackie Aina with a perfectly drawn brow. | Photo Pinterest Create a believable arch Drawing your brow arch can be tricky, a point arch can leave you with a surprised or mad look. This is why you have to exercise great care when drawing your brow arch. If you were not born with a high arch to use as a guide, you can also create a subtle one. Do this by holding a brow pencil against your nostril, diagonally in line with the centre of your eye; this is where your arch should go. Next, brush down your eyebrow hairs with a spoolie and using either a pencil or a brow gel, create a slight peak over your natural arch. Fluff your brow hairs back in place to make your arch look even more natural. Conceal the excesses: After drawing your brows, you have to define it using a concealer. To do this, you need a flat angled brush. Dip this in a bit of concealer and use to outline your brows. Use a concealer that is a shade lighter than your skin to conceal. Conceal using small strokes to remove all excesses. Once this has been successfully done, blend out the concealer using a blending foam or brush. Be careful when blending to make sure you don’t mess up your already drawn brows. Lighten: The final step to achieving the perfect brows is to finish up by lightening the root of your brows. This can be done using a highlighter that is only a shade brighter than your skin tone. Using a highlighter would help lift your eyes and emphasize your arch, making your eyebrows pop a little more. As a general rule, it is important to remember that eyebrows are not twins, but they could be sisters. Remembering this would save you the stress that often comes with trying to make sure your eyebrows look exactly the same. Following this step-by-step tutorial would largely help you get the hang of drawing your eyebrows which is more than half of your full facebeat. 