The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Ekiti State yesterday lost seven serving local government chairmen elected on the party’s platform to the All Progressives Congress (APC). They swapped the umbrella for the broom at a rally held at the Fajuyi Pavilion where Governor Kayode Fayemi received them into the APC. The local government chairmen, who defected to APC along with their supporters, described Fayemi as a true leader who plays inclusive politics and never victimised them since coming to power last year. The council chairmen, who dumped PDP are Ayodeji Daniel ( Ekiti West),  Abiodun Dada (Ijero), Yemi Ayeni (Ikere), Tunde Aladegbami (Ido/Osi), Sikiru Ogundana (Ekiti East), Olubayode Okeya (Emure), and Yemi Owoeye (Efon).His Chief of Staff, Hon. Biodun Omoleye, represented Governor Fayemi at the rally. Other party chieftains present include the state APC Chairman, Barrister Paul Omotoso and APC Southwest Zonal Publicity Secretary, Rt. Hon. Oladapo Karonwi. The Vice chairmen and councillors in the seven councils also defected to APC just as some commercial motorcyclists and mining association members formally jointed the party.All the seven council chairmen, who addressed the gathering one after the other, promised to work hard for their new party in future elections. They expressed gratitude to Fayemi for restoring them back to office after they were removed from office by the immediate past Assembly, a development they said had not happened in the history of the state.APC Zonal spokesperson Hon. Karonwi said the defectors have taken the best decision “by quitting PDP whose governance structures have collapsed irretrievably.” Receiving the new members, the party chairman, Barr Omotoso, who described them as great assets promised that they would not be discriminated against, as they will enjoy same privileges with old members.“Nobody is a latecomer in our party, we are ready to accommodate you. You have seen the light and you will never go back to darkness again and together, we will move Ekiti forward “I want to say that our doors are still open to those who are still in opposition to join us, come over to APC the party of the people.Omotoso said APC would give them a better platform to contribute to Ekiti development. He urged them to join hands with the Governor in taking Ekiti to greater heights.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .