 The Future Awards Africa (TFAA) 2019 nominee, Timini Egbuson; Co-founder, RED | For Africa, Adebola Williams; Team Lead, The Future Project, Bukonla Adebakin; Country Delegate and Managing Director, CFAO Nigeria, Thomas Pelletier; Head of Marketing, Massilia Motors Limited, Funmi Abiola, and Bukunyi Olateru-Olagbegi, Chairman of The Future Project, at the TFAA 2019 nominees reception hosted at Mitsubishi Motors showroom, Victoria Island, Lagos.  Dubbed the ‘Nobel Prize for Young Africans’ and the ‘most important youth awards’ by Forbes, TFAA is a set of prizes given annually to celebrate and accelerate innovation, creativity, and enterprise amongst young Africans aged 18 – 31. It has produced over 150 winners and over 1550 nominees since its first edition in 2006. Powered by The Future Project, which has the mandate to build empowered citizens across Africa, through (inclusive) enterprise and (active) citizenship, the award celebrates young enterprising Africans who have done exceptional work in their respective fields throughout the year. Speaking at the event, Chief Operating Officer of The Future Project, Bukonla Adebakin stated that the focus on Human Capital Development is informed by the team’s value proposition. She said, “Africa’s growth needs a generation of young people who are gainfully employed and able to demand and secure better leadership. Mitsubishi Motors Nigeria has consistently been recognized as one of the world’s renowned, forward-looking automobile brands, and we are so excited about this partnership. “It is a perfect mix, because we understand the brand’s effort to inspire Africa’s youth and boost creativity and enterprise, which also aligns with our vision. The partnership builds on Mitsubishi Motors Nigeria’s vision on youth investment and its
‘Drive Your Ambition’ tagline, which is focused on empowering young Nigerians,” Adebakin added. Earlier, in his keynote speech, Country Delegate and Managing Director, Mitsubishi Nigeria, Thomas Pelletier, explained the brand’s mission to promote youth investment, including young creators and entrepreneurs – a goal clearly captured by its support for The Future Awards Africa 2019. On her part, Head of Marketing, Massilia Motors Limited, the sole distributors of Mitsubishi Motors in Nigeria, Funmi Abiola said, “Nigerian youths have consistently proven themselves to be enterprising, innovative, creative and resilient, and they truly deserve to be celebrated through a sustainable and important platform like The Future Awards Africa.” “Our continent is at a critical point, and our work in supporting the youths will determine how excellent Africa will perform independently in the global market,” she added. Tunji Andrews and Onyinyechi hosted the nominees’ party, which held at Mitsubishi showroom in Victoria Island, Lagos, while DJ Wysei of Wazobia FM entertained the audience with great music. The awards event is scheduled to hold on Sunday, November 24 at the Balmoral Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .