 Ukachi  Prayer is a supernatural seed that can never die; it will inevitably yield fruits. The Parable of the Sower teaches that every seed that is sown has the potential to die or germinate depending on the soil where it is sown; but the seed of prayer is different; it hardly dies. The fruit of prayer ripens with time. Of all the spiritual treasures at the disposal of a Christian none is as potent as prayer. One enduring legacy, which Jesus bequeathed to His disciples, is the legacy of prayer. They saw Him pray, and He taught them how to pray. He knew that through prayer they would obtain amazing results. Among other ministries, which Jesus chose to continue with after His resurrection none is as strategic and redemptive as the ministry of intercession (Heb.7:25). This is evidence to the fact that the work of the kingdom can only thrive by the power of prayer. The potentials of prayer are unlimited. Its inherent ability to yield results is amazing. The work of the kingdom moves on from one generation to another because of the latent power of prayer and through the efforts of prayer warriors who labour tirelessly. The Psalmist said that, “…weeping may endue for the night but joy comes in the morning” (Psalm 30:5). Travailing in praying is very tedious. At times, it may appear that prayer does not yield any dividends, but time proves this notion wrong. Like E. M. Bounds says, “prayers are deathless,” it outlives those who say them. The tears we shed in prayers and the endless hours we put into prayer ultimately pays off. Jesus’ statement that, “Men ought always to pray and not faint” is a call on us to be unrelenting no matter the odds we face in the natural. Psalm 126:5-6 refers to the principle of sowing and reaping. It expressly states that sowing involves tears and pain but the inevitable season of reaping brings joy. This principle has relevance to sowing the seeds of prayer. Those who sow the seed of prayer would someday reap their labour of joy. “Those who sow in tears shall reap with shouts of joy! He who goes out weeping, bearing the seed for sowing, shall come home with shouts of joy, bringing his sheaves with him” (Psalms‬ It is the Holy Spirit who inspires prayer within our hearts. Even when we lack the insight of what to pray for or when we lack the strength and capacity to pray, He supplies the strength to us. He teaches us how to pray and how to sow the seeds of prayer. Sowing seeds of prayer requires sustained vision and effort. Would you mind sowing the useful seeds of prayer for our families, our children, the youths and children of the age? Would you heed the call to pray for the unreached people groups of the world; areas that are resistant to the gospel, towards the persecuted Christians? Would you be willing to sow the seeds of prayer asking God to pour out His Spirit of revival upon the Church and the youths in our nations? By faith, pray believing God that your labour would not be in vain and trusting God to grant you life to harvest the fruit of the seeds you sow? Contact:pastoracukachi@hotmail.com To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .