Florence Ifeoluwa Otedola (DJ Cuppy), Kanye Tagbo-Okeke, the High Commissioner of Pakistan, Maj. Gen. (Rtd) Waqar Ahmad Kingravi; Mrs Sylvia Tagbo-Okeke and Chief Kingsley Okafor at the Impossibility is a Myth solo art exhibition of contemporary abstract paintings by Kanye Tagbo-Okeke in Lagos…recently Last Sunday, the young artist and 2019 IIDA winner, Kanye Tagbo-Okeke, successfully ended a seven-day solo show of abstract paintings at Terra Kulture, Victoria Island, Lagos. Titled, Impossibility Is A Myth, the show revealed Tagbo-Okeke’s painterly skills on acrylic, oil and watercolour over a period of four years. The works offer insight into the brilliant mind of the calm, autistic child. Each creation consistently leaves the viewer awed — an admiration that whets the expectations of every visitor to the show. Speaking at the exhibition,, Group Managing Director, Nestoil Plc, Dr. Ernest Nnaemeka Azudialu-Obiejesi, said: “Kanyeyachukwu has demonstrated that even with autism one can still make meaningful impact in the society. I am thrilled to have this opportunity to support and celebrate this bundle of creative talent.” Popularly called, ‘Young Picasso’, Kanye emerged winner of the Social Bravery category of the IID Heroes Award with his outstanding works on autism. With limited verbal skills, Kanye has been expressive with his art. His autism awareness project started with the launch of Kanyechukwu Autism Foundation at an art show held at the Transcorp Hilton, Abuja, earlier this year. The show served as an eye-opener that children with special needs could also be very gifted. They could reach their creative potential through early diagnosis and therapy, and as such, they should not be stigmatised. Kanye’s advocacy has led to his paintings being acquired by various high commissions and embassies as well as within and outside the country. His works are also in the homes of high net-worth art collectors in Nigeria. Speaking with The Guardian, the show’s curator and National President, Association of Professional Creative Artists and Designers in Nigeria (APCAD), Chief Kingsley Okafor, said: “Kanye’s works speak louder than words. This exhibition is a master showcase. Kanye is a fellow of the association and a creative artist of impeccable nature. He’s comfortable working with oil, canvas, and acrylic on canvas. Most of his works are abstract and sometimes, semi abstract. This is not his first exhibition, he had one in May in Abuja and other in Casablanca, Morocco. His Austria show earned him the Flame award.” According to the APCAD head, the association is supporting Kanye because he is creating awareness on autism and helping other children with same fate. He disclosed that the title was chosen because of the nature of the boy, saying, if Kanye can do it, any autistic child can rise above circumstances and do great things. Okafor noted that the artist’s parents are bringing advocacy and awareness to autism, noting that a lot of parents with autistic kids hide them, but in their case, they are giving him exposure and support, saying others in similar situation should emulate them. Aside from being the youngest honouree of the Flame of Peace award in Creative Arts, an honour conferred on him in Vienna, Austria, he is also a fellow of APCAD. Kanye continues to shine internationally as he was recently acknowledged in Casablanca, Morocco, where his art works were displayed alongside notable young Moroccans’ artworks. Florence Ifeoluwa Otedola, popularly known as DJ Cuppy, who came out to support Kanye, noted that she met him recently in Abuja as part of the ZIBA Foundation for Autism and became passionate about supporting those with autism. She said: “I see Kanye in my 19-year-old autistic brother, Fewa. Autism should not be a hindrance or something to be ashamed of because it can bring about a new level of creativity. I always urge people to see autistic people as geniuses that have a complication with communication. This gives me hope that people would understand autistic people better. I use music as a means to communicate with my brother, there are so many ways we can spend time and bond with them if we look. I will keep on doing what I have been doing in my platform to support Kanye and others like him,” she said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .