Traffic situation in Lagos may get some reprieve following the introduction of new technology that would help commuters in the state navigate easily.The technology, which is from Google is named Traffic Tab and is embedded in the mappings of Lagos. Although it was announced in July at the Google for Nigeria forum, the formal unveiling was done in Lagos, yesterday. The Traffic Tab offers users a snapshot of the information they care about most: traffic, weather, bus stop busyness and current expected fare levels for commercial buses, popularly called ‘Danfo’. The tool provides bus riders with information to help them find their most efficient route, both in travel time and transport costs.    Until now, Google Map users have only been able to access information for other forms of transportation including cars, 2-wheelers, BRT and ride hailing. The Tab includes a new directions experience, which features suggested routes, which may combine walking, taking a Keke or Okada, Danfo or BRT.   Information about the estimated fare range, expected travel time and pictures of the stops along the route are now available to aid travelers on their trips around Lagos. Clicking on the pictures will allow users to get a 360 degree view on street view to help them better understand their location. Senior Product Manager, Google Maps, Jeff Albertson, said: “What we have built for Lagos is a global first for Google Maps, and a step towards helping people in many other cities where transport can be informally organized as it is in Nigeria. “We co-designed this product with people in Lagos. It was an engaging process to start from scratch, bring diverse teams of Googlers to Lagos, interview Lagosians and Local guides, understand local needs, and then design something that weaves together all the many ways that people here move around.”“Nigeria is important to us. Beyond providing tools to help Nigerians use Maps, we also want to continue to bring more of Nigeria to the map. It’s a journey that we are happy to be on”.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .