The Guardian Group has partnered with the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology to showcase the ministry’s giant strides and project the current administration’s Next Level agenda to the world. The Group Chief Executive Officer (GCEO), Dr. Habeeb Adekunle Quadri, disclosed this yesterday during a courtesy visit to the Minister of State for Science and Technology, Mohammed Abdullahi, in Abuja. He urged the minister to take advantage of the various channels available in The Guardian to let the world know what the ministry had done over the years through special projects and advertisements. Represented by the Acting Editor, Dr. Paul Onomuakpokpo, the GCEO said the medium was interested in partnering with government in areas it could help to project the administration within and outside the country. Quadri said: “We are saying that we will help you to tell the world what you have done. The role you are playing in achieving the Next Level agenda of the government (notwithstanding), but we need your support to do this by making your presence felt in The Guardian through stories, interviews, and other packages “While we are helping you to achieve your purpose to make the world know what you are doing, we will also be benefiting in a way because we are in business, and we need people’s support to survive. “Once you allow us to go ahead, we will design a template for us to really work with you effectively through this medium. Of course, as you know, we don’t just have the print (the hard copy), we also have a robust presence online through our digital newspaper, TV, radio and other media because what you have here will also appear online. We have different media through which we can display your content.” Also speaking, the Abuja Bureau Chief of the newspaper, Igho Akeregha, noted that The Guardian sees the ministry as a critical partner not only for Nigeria particularly in the life of this administration to drive its vision for the Next Level but also to develop the nations through agriculture, local production, and technology. “We can spotlight specific activities of the ministry that the world must know because as it is now, the news is no longer localised. Once it is put in the newspaper and spread on multimedia platforms, the rest of the world gets to know about it, “ he added. Earlier, the minister commended the news medium for its balanced and fair reportage as well as credibility, adding that he has been a fan of the newspaper. Abdullahi hinted that the ministry was making far-reaching research in ensuring that science and technology were commercialised to create jobs, better the living of the people and impact the economy positively. “We need The Guardian at this critical moment of our history to begin to beam its searchlight on what we do as a ministry in terms of innovation, in terms of our findings in research and how we can translate them into value for the people, “ he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .