Nigeria Police Kano State Police Command yesterday confirmed the arrest and detention of four officers of the command for alleged involvement in the death of one Abdulkadir Nasiru their custody. Abdulkadir, 26, a resident of Madobi Local Government Area of Kano State, was reportedly tortured to death by the operatives of the command in Madobi division while undergoing investigations over ‘unknown’ charges in their custody. Police spokesman, DSP Abdullahi Haruna who confirmed the incident through telephone, said while the Commissioner of Police has ordered full scale investigation into the case, four officers allegedly involved are being detained. Although, Haruna did not clearly state the offense that led to the arrest and detention of late Abdulkadir, he simply said that “the case involved three persons, but there was alleged exchange of words between the victim and a police officer, when he was ordered to go inside the police station for questioning, the late Abdulkadir was alleged to have slapped the policeman”. According to him, “Immediately the case was brought to the notice of the state command, the Commissioner of police ordered that the case be transferred to Homicide Department of the police for proper investigation and the four policemen on duty on that fateful day have been arrested and detained over the incident.” DSP Haruna noted. Meanwhile, the Emir of Karaye, Alhaji Ibrahim Abubakar II, has demanded full investigation into the death of Abdulkadir.
A statement issued by the spokesman of Karaye emirate, Alhaji Mohammadu Gunduwawa and obtained by The Guardian, said the emir was shocked with the news of the sad incident and demand the Kano State Police Command to ensure all those behind the act were made to face justice. “I received the complaint on the incident from the father of the late Abdulkadir, Mallam Nasiru Madobi of Madobi local government area as well as an official report on the incident from the District Head of Madobi; Maji dadin Karaye Alhaji Musa Saleh Kwankwaso. The Karaye Emirate council will remain vigilant towards ensuring the prevailing of justice in the case”. The statement also revealed that the Emir has directed the Secretary of the emirate council to write an official letter to the Kano State Commissioner of Police on the matter.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .