Did AKA Shade Burna Boy On New Song? South African rapper AKA just got featured on the remix of a song and his verse has got people talking. For the remix to his smash hit song “Nkalakatha” South African rapper, Costa Titch enlists rappers Riky Rick and AKA. AKA’s verse came last on the song and the “Fela In Versace” rapper dropped some lines that are perceived as subliminal shots at Grammy-nominated Nigerian artist Burna Boy and South African politician Julius Malema: “I am the king of the jungle, Julius Caesar. Cancel my people, cancel your visa. Nobody go enter. South Africa is the kingdom, the Garden of Eden, and I’m at the centre, the public protector … my middle finger stands tall for the flag.” Burna Boy was billed to perform in South Africa last weekend at the highly expected anti-xenophobia concert tagged Africa Unite. The concert was eventually cancelled after Burna withdrew following threats of violence and calls for him to apologise for comments he made when Nigerians and Nigerian-owned businesses were attacked in South Africa in August. Burna Boy vowed never to travel to South Africa except the country’s government stops attacks on foreigners. The concert had been organised to as a tribute to the Xenophobic attacks that had rocked the country in September 2019. And one of the most publicised aftermaths of the attacks was the confrontation between Burna Boy and AKA. AKA wanted Burna to apologise for his comment. Meanwhile, South African politician and activist Julius Malema also came under fire for his support for Burna Boy and for further stating that no one was going to stop the Afrobeats star from performing in the Rainbow nation. Another line from AKA’s verse that also got people talking seems to be a shot at people who were silent as well as politicians (Julius Malema?) that contributed to the issue that threatened to divide the two countries: “All of y’all with a platform need a backbone, you trash. How can I be the only one with opinions and the radio on smash? Watermelon on tap, small politicians, big mad. Voetsek!” Listen to Nkalakatha remix below: 