The newly-crowned clan head of Oniong in Onna Local Council of Akwa Ibom State, Etebom Samuel Efik, has advised local councils nationwide to expand their Internally-Generated Revenue (IGR) base rather than depend solely on the monthly allocations from the Federal Government. The monarch, who stated this during his coronation ceremony, charged the council chairmen to device alternative ways of generating more revenue internally, noting that such would  “greatly alleviate the economic and unemployment challenges prevalent in every local council in the country.” Besides, he advised them to establish mechanised farming schemes in their areas to provide employment to the teeming unemployed youths, saying: “The idea of local councils having to depend solely on Federal Government’s monthly allocation is lamentable.” In another development, the royal father frowned against superstitious beliefs and some harmful traditional practices, including “the unsavoury practice of coercing widows to choose another member of the late husband’s family as her new spouse.” According to him, we need to educate our people that “it is not witchcraft that causes every misfortune that befalls us, such as sickness, joblessness or death. We need to open our minds to the fact that self-employment is often not only more beneficial but also very achievable for most of us.’’ Meanwhile, Governor Udom Emmanuel, who was represented by Commissioner for Works, Mr. Ephraim Inyang, said that the state government was committed to partnering with the royal fathers to ensure sustainable peace and development of the state. He said that the state government, in according recognition and respect to traditional rulers, had moved to strengthen the partnership with the royal fathers as part of efforts to ensure peace in all communities of the state. “We hold the traditional rulers in the highest esteem. With their support and contribution, peace and development will continue to reign in the local councils of the state,’’ he said. The governor, who commended the people of the clan for the spirit of brotherhood, described the new clan head as an accomplished professional, urging them to rally around him to ensure the clan continues to be one the leading clans in the council. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .