 The Lagos Women Run featured runners from across the world in a 10-kilometre race across the streets of the city.  The race, flagged off by the wife of Lagos State Governor, Dr. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, was won by Kenya’s Cheptoeck Careen in the Open category and Nigeria’s Genevieve Njoku in the Veterans’ class. Speaking at the event, one of the runners, Miss Oluwatamilore Ogunmodede, a 400 Law student at the University of Ibadan, said she heard of the race from her school mate, adding, it was “good because it gave me the opportunity to run and meet other people from across the country, aside the healthier life it provides. “But next time, I will suggest they ensure that everyone starts the race on the same line. They should not put the professionals at the front, giving them undue advantage, thinking they will be the ones to win the race. This idea discourages others who also think they stand a good chance to win the race.” Awofunsi Queenet, who is based in Ibadan, has issues with the kits provided by the organisers.“My husband encouraged me to be part of the race even though I did not win it. I am here just to prove a point that I still have the ability to run such a distance again after putting to bed recently. The cash prizes given to winners is fair enough, I am satisfied with the logistics provided. “However, the kits provided were inadequate, as many of us didn’t get them. Since we registered online, I thought the organisers should have known how many runners would be participating in the race. For us to get here and be told the kits were finished wasn’t a good response. Over all, I think the organisers did quite well but there is still a lot of room for improvement.” For 36-year-old Diana from Lebanon, who completed her race against expectation from her friends, “The Lagos Women Run was a very nice and amazing experience. I am very happy I took part in it. All my friends doubted my ability to finish the 10 kilometres race, but I made it. I give kudos to the organisers for a well-organised race. I enjoyed myself and also made new friends.” Coordinator of the event, Tayo Popoola, said the well-being of women was paramount to the Lagos Women Run organisers, adding that mammogram had been provided to conduct tests for the athletes who took part in the Lagos Women Run. “Apart from socialising and networking at the Lagos Women Run, we are also taking seriously the health challenges of our women. That is why we have offered to conduct cancer tests on some of the participants.“Tests were conducted free of charge and we hope it would help safe lives as early detection gives hope of survival to patients.“We would be carrying out the test at all times and I believe the cancer scourge will be brought to its barest minimum and our women can live a healthy life again,” she said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .