Arsenal bosses told the club’s staff on Monday at a meeting that they were “disappointed” and that “things need to improve” following the club’s sloppy results in recent games. Arsenal’s head of football Raul Sanllehi and managing director Vinai Venkatesham told about 200 staff at meeting that the club is sticking with underfire manager Unai Emery, Daily Mail reported. “We are as disappointed as everyone else with both our results and performances at this stage of the season,” the Arsenal bosses told the staff. “We share the frustration with our fans, Unai, players and all our staff as they are not at the level we want or expect. ‘Things need to improve to meet our objectives for the season.” Before the Monday meeting, rumours were rife that Sanllehi met with both Jose Mourinho and Luis Enrique to discuss the possibility of either of them taking over from Emery. But statements credited to Sanllehi and Venkatesham on Monday suggests that the Spaniard may be in charge of the Gunners until the end of the season. “We firmly believe Unai is the right man for the job, together with the backroom team we have in place. We are all working intensively behind the scenes to turn things around and are confident we will.” Emery succeeded Arsene Wenger, Arsenal’s longest-serving manager,  in 2018 and led the club to a Europa  League final in his first season in charge. But he failed to make the Champions League cut. But not many Gunners’ fans are convinced the Spaniard is capable of returning the club to the big league. Club legend Ian Wright and journalist Piers Morgan are part of those who blamed Emery for the clubs poor run of form and said he should be sacked. 1 shot on target tonight!! 2 wins in 10 in the league,” Wright tweeted after Arsenal 2-0 loss away to Leicester. “No definitive style or plan. Negative goal difference. No improvement in the defence. Not creating anything. “Why would Laca or Auba renew? Can’t blame them! We have to make the tough decision Arsenal! It’s not getting better!” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .