 Bolaji Owasanoye, ICPC boss  The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) said it has saved N1.8 billion for the Federal Government through the ongoing constituency project tracking. Chairman of ICPC, Prof. Bolaji Owasanoye, disclosed this in Abuja yesterday during the official launch of the nationwide community enlightenment and advocacy programme tagged ‘My Constituency, My Project’. According to Owasanoye, the cumulative savings for government is the total of recoveries and the cost of all those projects in which contractors moved to sites as a result of the Constituency Projects Tracking Group (CPTG) activities.He disclosed that the commission recommended a low number of cases for prosecution due to the need for further investigation to produce prosecutable case files. Revealing that the total recoveries made in cash was N78.09 million, he said the total value of recoveries made in assets stood at N660.52 million.“What we are launching today is for the community to take ownership not just for constituency project but anything government prompted to do for the community. “It is our money, our task, our revenue that is being used. Anybody could be a channel for having the project brought to us. Either it is our representative in the legislature or our representative who is an appointee of the government,” he said. The Director-General of NOA, Mr. Garba Abari, noted the importance of communities taking ownership of the projects, adding that it would foster the genuine interest to preserve and protect them.He said this would also ensure that contractors with the intention to maximise profits would execute the projects to the highest standards required. “Community ownership will ensure that legislators and other officers of government are alerted when there is poor execution of these contracts and they are also held accountable.  “The public perception of these projects is that, it is the largest disbursed by government to legislators as part of the perquisites of office.“Our partnership with the ICPC is to change the perception, so that citizens will begin to see the projects as theirs and therefore continue to make the needed contribution that will help to popularise democratic model of government in the country,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .