Emir of Kano, Mohammadu Sanusi The Kano State government has reacted to controversy surrounding the encroachment and demolition of property along Dangi Roundabout, belonging to the Emir of Kano, Mohammadu Sanusi. A source at the emirate revealed that the state government forcibly demolished the said property estimated at N250m and offered Sanusi a compensation of N4.5 million, an amount he allegedly rejected. The source told The Guardian that the government action was intended to further deepen the rift between the Emir and Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje. “Everybody is aware of the crisis between the Emir and Kano State government. You know the case of the new emirates deliberately created by Governor Ganduje simply to cripple Sanusi’s powers and supremacy. “You are also aware of the allegation of financial misappropriation by Kano Anti-Corruption Agency against the Emir. All these cases are deliberately targeted to reduce the Emir’s status because of the disagreement between them. “But the land belongs to Sanusi and he acquired the land for N200m and if you check the commercial value of that land, it is worth not less than N250m. Now, this is the same land the government is offering N4.5m compensation, which I believe is grossly inadequate and embarrassing and we believe it is just an attempt to flex muscles considering the differences between the emirate and the government.” But in a swift reaction to the allegation, Kano State Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, Engr. Muaz Magaji told The Guardian that the encroachment was basically intended to create a new path for the completion of three-slab flyovers project. Magaji alleged that Emir Sanusi deliberately hindered the project, which is meant for public convenience in the last eight months due to differences in the rate at which compensation will be paid. The commissioner, who insisted that government had followed all necessary rights and due process, as well as the uniform rate of compensation, vowed that government would not be distracted by blackmail being mounted by the emirate before embarking on development projects. “The project has reached 90 per cent completion but it has been stalled for eight months due to lack of dispute resolution on the entitlement in terms of compensation. “Also remember that the land in question is not the only property that was demolished and paid for which compensations were paid. In fact, initially there was no trace of the Emir on the documents perhaps one of his surrogates was used, but after our investigation, the Emir’s name surface on the documents,” he stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .