 Director, Shell Petroleum Development Company, Igo Weli (left); Managing Director, BelemaOil, Pedro Diaz; Director, T4 Media, Lisa Gordillo; Group General Manager, National Petroleum Investment Management Services NAPIMS, Musa Lawan; Director, T4 Media, Estefania Borghetti; General Manager, Capacity Building Division, Nigerian Content Development Monitoring Board, NCDMB, Dr Ama Ikuru; Managing Director, Ejovi Dredging and Marine Services, Oghenegaren Ejovi and Managing Director, DeltaAfrik, Akinwunmi Odumakinde at the launch of Top Tier Book in Lagos on Tuesday 											PHOTO: FEMI ADEBESIN-KUTI  One of the Directors, Estefania Borghetti, at the private launch of the Top Tier book in Lagos on Tuesday, explained that they had been working on the project for at least one year in order to create a platform to connect both the government and private sector operators as well as investors.     Another Director, Lisa Gordillo, while giving insights into the magazine said 90 percent of the contents was face-to-face interviews with industry operators like OPEC, NNPC, NAPIMS and the NCDMB. She added that the articles featured the emergence of indigenous joint venture champions, local content, corporate social responsibility programmes, game changer projects, energy security and the future of oil as well as gas potential. On his part, the Group General Manager of NAPIMS, Musa Lawan stated that the book will serve as a veritable marketing tool to showcase the opportunities in the country, adding that the corporation will support similar initiatives.“We believe that the initiative will add value to the oil and gas industry. I urge operators to support the initiative”, he added. Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited (SPDC) and Country Chair, Shell Companies in Nigeria, Osagie Okunbor advocated improved collaboration among operators, adding that there was need for a stable macro-environment for businesses to thrive. Okunbor, who was represented by the General Manager External Relations of SPDC, Igo Weli, said the country needs an investment climate that continues to attract capital, noting that Nigeria has what it takes to be a leader, even as other African countries continue to take a share of the investment market. “Fiscal stability is key to attracting investments in the country. Oil theft remains an issue in the country as 1,160 illegal oil theft points have since been removed since 2012 by Shell. Replacing these points also affects production output. There is need to attract more funding for growth in the country by ensuring the environment is safe for operations and regulatory environment stable”, he added.On his part, the Managing Director of Belemaoil, Pedro Diaz noted that the publication has helped indigeous operators to showcase their potential to new investors. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .