The suspects Two domestic workers who connived and stole a Cuban Diamond neck chain, a Frank Muller and Rolex wrist watches worth N243 million belonging to their employer were arrested at the weekend in Borno after almost two weeks of fleeing Lekki, Lagos. The suspects: Alex Obinyan, 39, a cleaner and Ayuba Samson, 29, a car washer, were arrested after they had sold the neck chain and wrist watch for N6 million and N4 million respectively in Lagos and Abuja. The identity of their employer, who sources confirmed is a popular celebrity with vast investment in Lekki, Lagos is being kept under wrap by detectives ‘for security reasons’. Obinyan, source disclosed had spent over eight years working and living with the celebrity in Lekki before the incident. His colleague, Ayuba, started working at the celebrity’s residence only two months ago after returning from Chibok, his hometown. They earned N80, 000 and N50, 000 monthly respectively. The suspects and the buyers of the jewelry were brought to Rapid Response Squad (RRS) headquarters, Alausa, Ikeja by the decoy team of the agency in an unbranded vehicle after eight-day investigative activities to Abuja and Borno States. The suspects, who were captured on CCTV leaving the celebrity’s residence have confessed stealing the Cuban Diamond Chain valued at N54 million, a Frank Moller Wrist watch worth N140 million and a Rolex wrist watch worth N49 million. According to Obinyan, they sold the Diamond Chain in Eti–Osa, Lagos for N6 million while the Frank Moller watch was sold in Abuja for N4 million. “I have been working with the celebrity in Lekki for over 8 years. I am used to moving those valuables around the house wherever I found them in his car. I have never thought of stealing them. “When Samson came and he saw me with the gold chain laced with diamonds, he convinced me that we could make a fortune from stealing them. He was not with us before. Within two months of his stay, we planned to steal these things. “Oga was in the sitting room. We stole the chain along with a Frank Moller wristwatch and a Rolex wrist watch. Before escaping, we already got a buyer for the chain. We sold the Diamond chain in Eti-Osa for N6 million. “The following day, we escaped to Abuja where we bought a Toyota Corolla. We sold the Frank Moller watch in Abuja for N4 million to raise more money for our escape to Borno State, where we intended to start new lives and businesses”, the suspect said. Obinya in his letter to the celebrity before his departure, said: “I know you will be shocked why I write to you but the truth is that due to some observations, I have noticed that you are not a person that someone can rely on. “I have been patient enough to see if you can help me, but you keep on promising me. To cut the story short, I have decided to stop working for you, and I am sorry to mention that but you have to bear with me. I have gone for good, because I cannot continue to work for a person that doesn’t care about me and doesn’t value me for the rest of my life”. The suspects were arrested in Maiduguri in their two room and parlour they rented. Also arrested with them were the buyer of the chain, Haruna Abdullahi and that of the wrist watch, Abubakar Buhari. Recovered from the suspects were a Rolex watch, two brand new ‘keke Napep’, Toyota Corolla and the sum of $2200. The suspects have been transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID), Panti for further investigations. Commenting on the development, Commander RRS, DCP Olatunji Disu urged lagosians to always do a background check of all their workers before employing them.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .