 Yakubu and Inspector General of Police, Mr Mohammed Adamu sandwiched by journalists immediately after the 2nd Stakeholders’ Meeting held in Yenegoa, Bayelsa State which ended moments ago. Photo: TWITTER/INECNIGERIA  The Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mr. Mohammed Adamu, yesterday said the Force would deploy no fewer than 32,000 officers for election duty during the Bayelsa gubernatorial poll fixed for November 16, 2019. Adamu disclosed this in Yenagoa during a stakeholders’ meeting with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu; gubernatorial candidates, representatives of political parties, traditional rulers, security agents and others. The IGP, who assured maximum security during and after the election in the state, said the police were ready to protect lives and property, especially in all the polling units. “All security arrangements have been made. The police force will deploy 32,000 personnel to the state during the period of the governorship poll. “The police will ensure that all electoral materials are well secured. We urge all politicians and the electorate, especially the youths, to stay away from disorder. “Do not cause trouble at the polling units or conduct any illegal activity capable of disrupting election processes. “You must not allow yourselves to be used because if you are caught, you will be prosecuted according to the law. “This election is an isolated one and we must do what we can to achieve credible poll,” he said. The INEC chairman reiterated the commission’s commitment to free, fair, credible and conclusive poll for the people. He said the commission had delivered all non-sensitive materials to their office in Yenagoa. “The materials have been sorted out, categorised and batched; ready to be delivered to the local councils, wards and polling units. “The sensitive materials are also ready and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) is delivering them to Bayelsa this weekend. “Voter inducement in all forms, including vote-buying at polling units, is a violation of the law. “The ban on the use of mobile phones and other photographic devices in the voting cubicles is still in force and will be strictly enforced and monitored. “I urge all stakeholders to continue to eschew violence and maintain peaceful conduct during the election. “It is our collective responsibility to safeguard the process and to protect all election duty members of staff, including the corps members who will serve at the polling units, the basic level of the voting process,” Yakubu said. On the signing of the peace accord by political parties, the chairman said the exercise was aimed at resolving, pledging, affirming and committing all to non-violence before, during and after the election. Meanwhile, the INEC has said that it will access the implementation stages of the governorship election in the eight local councils of the state. According to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), Chairman, Planning, Monitoring and Support Centre, INEC Headquarters, Dr. Mustapha Lecky, said this in Yenagoa during the Election Monitoring and Support Centre (EMSC) workshop, was supported by the European Centre for Electoral Support (ECES) and funded by the European Union (EU) with the European Union Support to Democratic Governance in Nigeria (EU-SDGN). Lecky, represented by Prof. Bolade Enyinla, Chief Technical Adviser to INEC chairman, described election as a process. Mrs. May Agumuche-Mbu, Commissioner in-charge of Rivers, Edo and Bayelsa, Mrs. May Agumuche-Mbu, said that the workshop was a welcome development and would go a long way to assist in planning. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .