The Kano State Government and the Shandog Province firms are partnering in the areas of leather production, textile manufacturing, agro-allied and solid mineral mining to boost the state economy, a Nigerian Investment Promotion Council (NIPC) report has said. Recall that last month, Deputy Governor, Nasiru Gawuna, led a delegation to the Shandong Province, where he signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), on behalf of the Kano State Government on mutual investment relationship. Governor Abdullahi Ganduje restated his administration’s commitment to the partnership with the Chinese delegation at a meeting in Kano. Represented by Gawuna, the governor said considering the vast commercial opportunities and endowment the state is blessed with, the government will not hesitate to encourage investors to come and invest in the state. He said: “We have many areas of investment opportunities that our investors can properly harness for mutual investment benefits, which include leather, textile, agro-allied and solid minerals industries, among others.” According to the Governor, as part of the agenda, a high-level delegation from the Shandon Province would meet with the business community in Kano, to discuss issues on commerce and investment for the benefit of the partners. He said: “Our gathering here is for the delegation from Shandong Province to meet with the representatives of Kano business community operating in the private sector. They are very committed and full of determination to partner with any willing investor either in Greenfield or Brownfield investment.“ The Governor further expressed optimism that the visit would translate into reality by concretising all investment offerings and negotiations, stressing that, “As you visited Kano and met with its people, we hope there will be exchange visits to strengthen our sister-relationship with Shandong Province.” Speaking, leader of the Chinese delegation, who is also the President of Shandong Provincial Committee, Fu Zhifang, expressed appreciation to the people of Kano for the great hospitality accorded them during the visit. “We have been to some historical sites of the ancient city of Kano and some commercials centres; from what we have seen, there are a lot of endowments on investments, which will soon be established between the sister states,” he affirmed. Zhifang also assured that their visit to Kano would give room for investment relationship with the Shandong Province, which according to him would be beneficial to the present and future generations of the Peoples Republic of China and Nigeria in general. The delegation visited the Northstar SME industrial cubicles at Sharada, which is a ready-made cluster for any interested Chinese Company, the Kano Emir’s Palace, Kofar Mata Dye pits, and Gidan Dan Hausa museum among others. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .