Media personality and former Big Brother Nigeria finalist, Alex Asogwa, popularly known as Alex Unusual has mentored over 100 kids between ages 5 to 13 years to mark this year children’s day celebration. The event, which held in Lagos in partnership with The English Manner Nigeria, teaches children the laws and procedures of etiquette, and how they can maintain emotional intelligence. Tagged, “One Day Children’s Etiquette Training’, they were also mentored on leadership, deportment, problem-solving skills, dining etiquette, public speaking, amongst others. According to Asogwa, who spoke during the training session, “most times as individuals what we need to succeed in life is emotional intelligence, hence the need to train the kids on soft skills and etiquette”. She revealed that during the course of her etiquette class with the organisation years back, it dawned on her that many kids needed the training “I know it’ll be nice to contribute positively to the proper upbringing of these kids and give them an opportunity to learn what I learnt especially at their young age. “Children are adorable angels and the purest of hearts. They deserve all the attention they can get as they grow because they are quick to grasp, they have the sharpest brains and are open to learning” she said. “Living in a world where first impression, character and charisma almost defines a person, I’m very passionate about instilling the right values in children because it pays and will definitely be of great use to this country and the world at large, now and in the future” she further added. However, Head of business development at The English Manner Nigeria, Adedoyin Tejuosho reiterated the need for soft skills over technical abilities. They include self-motivation, teamwork, creativity, time management, organization, flexibility, conflict resolution, positivity, communication, leadership, problem-solving as well as critical observation. The English Manner Nigeria, operating under the franchise of The English Manner UK, and the umbrella of The Etiquette Connection, is an international training company offering tutoring in interpersonal, social and business skills, international business diplomacy, cross-cultural integration and protocol, household management and cultural tours in Europe, UK, and Asia for a diverse and discerning clientele of high net worth international clients.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .