 MKO  Shortly after he founded Abiola Babes FC his team recruited several players from Shooting Stars FC that had just sacked all its players following their failure to win the final match of the 1984 African Club Championship in Ibadan. Surprisingly, I was not one of those approached to join Abiola Babes. Although I never asked him why, I always felt it was because he did take me as he did other players following my audacity to turn down his offer of job with ITT several years before. 
 
When he entered politics and was going up north on one of his campaigns, I flew with him in his private plane to Abuja one day and we discussed his dream. I told him how I felt deep down that he would make a great president, and that he was the most prepared and qualified Nigerian at the time to lead the country, considering the vastness of his experiences, the friendships he had built up all over the country, his wide business empire, his philanthropy and, most importantly, his contributions to sports and the lives of sports persons throughout the African continent. 
 
On my way back to Lagos, I returned with his Special Assistant and adviser, Mr. Patrick Okpomo as well as the President of the Confederation of African Football, CAF, Issa Hayatou, who was his guest in Nigeria. Their friendship was cemented by Mr. Okpomo. Hiring Okpomo was a very smart move.  He used his vast connections in CAF and FIFA to get Chief to be welcome to the corridors of the highest organs of football in the world.
 
Chief sponsored many personal and official projects of CAF and its leadership. His organisations established three football clubs within the Nigerian league – ITT FC, Concord FC and Abiola Babes FC. It was Abiola Babes FC that was the flagship; the team that made his name household throughout Africa; the team that won the Nigerian FA Cup twice and got to the finals of the Africa Cup-winners’ Cup in the 1980s.
 
The club rose quickly, along with Leventis United FC of Ibadan, to join the elite clubs at the top of Nigerian football at the time including Rangers of Enugu, Shooting Stars of Ibadan, Bendel Insurance of Benin, Rovers of Calabar, Raccah Rovers of Kano, BCC Lions of Gboko, New Nigerian Bank of Benin, Sharks of Port Harcourt and a few others.
 
Chief went beyond football and touched the lives of several ordinary athletes in other sports, male and female. He sponsored Nigerians as well as people from other African countries, to schools, universities, coaching courses and competitions abroad.He funded several sports federations to competitions and to organize competitions. He also funded programmes and activities of CAF and the Africa Sports Journalists Union, ASJU. He was grand patron and chief financier of the Nigerian Football Supporters club.  The second is a monument glittering at the entrance of Nigeria’s capital city.Every time any person drives into Abuja, they will come face to face with the most beautiful and most magnificent sports edifice of its kind in Africa, named after him – an honour befitting only for Nigeria’s greatest business, social, political and sports hero in harmonious combination –Chief Moshood Kashimawo Olawale Abiola, the Pillar of Sports in Africa.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .