Oba Balogun of Isheri Olofin As his Royal Majesty, Oba Wahab Ayinde Balogun of Isheri Olofin reviews his 35 years on the throne today, he declares with nostalgia that there is every reason to celebrate and appreciate God for his goodness unto him. The 92-year-old first class Oba and paramount ruler of Isheri Olofin, who was once the Chairman, Alimosho Council of Obas, is happy that he has discharged his duty as an overseer over his subjects, creditably despite chalenges encountered. The monarch gives glory to God for seeing him through thus far. He discloses that Isheri Olofin has been existing for over 600 years with two ruling houses initially producing Bales and Obas, which later increased to four, made of Oyekanmi, Olanwa, Abisua and Olaigbo. Asked if he ever had it in mind to become a king, Oba Balogun said that it never crossed his mind, though his parents were telling him when he was young that he had an omen to be great. He, however, declared that there was a declaration and in 1983, his coronation was announced and in 1984, he was installed.
On how his relationship had been with his subjects, Oba Balogun with enthusiasm made it known that his rappour with his subjects had been exemplary, the people he described as peace loving, always obeying rules and regulations by the government and paying their taxes. “There is only one exception and that is one Alhaji Adebimpe who has been disturbing my kingdom, wiring petitions.
“His unfounded allegation has been that Isheri Olofin is an illegal town which needs no Oba, despite the fact that this is an ancient town. “Anytime there is anything to celebrate, he comes up with his indefensible claims, but as I am talking to you now, he is a wanted man and had gone underground,” he said. Oba Balogun remarked that Isheri Olofin has a good relationship with the government, although the government is yet to fulfill its mandate of giving him a befitting palace. According to him, a law was enacted that the government should build palaces for first Class Obas in Lagos State which include himself, adding that as today, two Obas are enjoying that privilege which are Oba of Lagos and Alara of Ilara, Epe Division while the rest first class Obas are still waiting. He added that the only reason the government has been advancing for not meeting up with their expectation was lack of money.
Another issue that is causing rift between the kingdom and the state government is the controversy over the vast land of more than 600 acres the government acquired which is needed for village extension. He expressed dissatisfaction to this as the government had allocated the land that belongs to a lot of families under his reign. He however said the case which had long started since 1976, that lingered to 2005 is still in court.
Oba Balogun also said his heart desire which the government is yet to respond to is the issue of giving a secondary school to his community. “We want the government to give us a Secondary School. We have provided land. We are being told to go and start by building six class rooms first before they come to our aid. “Right now, we have only one community Primary School with no secondary school at all,” he lamented. Oba Balogun said he would like the government to listen to their cry and give the community a secondary school, one of the legacies he would like to leave for his people. “As I said, Isheri Olofin are peace-loving people, they always co-operate with the government as they pay their taxes and participate in community development activities. So, the town deserves to be considered for every good thing from the government,” he said.
Oba Balogun as he celebrates his 35 years on the throne said “peace” is the major legacy he would like to leave for his people. “I want my people to enjoy peace as I would not want, what happened to our forefathers to happen to my people. “In those days, there were wars and I can remember some gory stories. Thank God today. I would not like to remember those days and what I want for my people is peace and real peace,” he said. Prince Idris Balogun, the Oluomo of Isheri Kingdom expresses joy over his father’s 35 years celebration on the throne.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .