Tobacco smoking is one of the most preventable causes of premature death in the world today.
Since its discovery in the farmlands of the Americas dating back to 1000 BC, it has continued to
be a part of society and has been utilised in different forms – chewed, snuffed, smoked via pipes,
in cigarette sticks, shisha or vapes. Tobacco products are prepared from the leaves of the tobacco
plant and contain amongst other things, nicotine, cyanide and other chemicals capable of causing
cancer. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), 8 million deaths are directly caused by
tobacco every year with about 1 million deaths due to second-hand smoking, totalling about one
death every four seconds. It is a risk factor for virtually all diseases, including heart disease,
strokes, cancer and lung disease. The 31st of May is set aside to raise awareness on the dangers of tobacco. On this day, 24-hour
abstinence from smoking is advised to commemorate the day. The theme for this year’s event is
Tobacco and Lung Health. In this article, we will discuss the effects of tobacco on the lungs,
highlighting the negative effects of tobacco on lung health for smokers and the general populace. What Do The Lungs Do? Ailing Lungs, Photo: NewAtlas The lungs are responsible for the exchange of air between the body and the outside world. The
body is made of tiny units called cells which require oxygen to live and function. The body also
produces a harmful substance at the end of its cellular processes called carbon dioxide that needs
to be removed. This exchange is made possible by the lungs. When air enters the nostrils or mouth,  it is channelled via different tubes into a Y-shaped
structure called the bronchi. This funnels air into the lungs and divides into smaller pipes that
enable air-exchange to take place. When tobacco is inhaled, the processes that help prevent dirt from entering the body via the
respiratory system are knocked out and the chemicals in tobacco smoke are left to wreak havoc
almost immediately on the lungs. This causes a reduction in lung function and overall health. What Are Some Of The Negative Consequence Of Tobacco On The Lungs? Around the world, about 20% of adult men and 16% of adult women smoke. A considerable
amount of children are, however, exposed to second-smoke, unable to get rid of the exposure. Lung cancer Tobacco smoking is directly linked to the development of lung cancer. It is responsible for nearly
70% of all cases of lung cancer-related deaths globally, totalling 1.8 million deaths.
Although smokers are 22 times more likely to develop lung cancer, secondary smokers are also
at risk of developing lung cancer due to their exposure to exhaled tobacco smoke. Tuberculosis Tobacco does not cause tuberculosis but may worsen the outcome of tuberculosis. Being a
dangerous killer in its own respect, tuberculosis was responsible for over 1 million deaths in
2018. Tobacco contains chemicals that may damage the lung and trigger latent tuberculosis. Overall,
this increases the risk of disability or death from tuberculosis. Chronic Respiratory Illnesses Tobacco is the leading cause of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease – a condition in which the
lungs are filled with pus-filled mucus, causing a painful cough, difficulty breathing and reduced
quality of life. Globally, about 250 million people are living with COPD. Tobacco also triggers asthma – a disease of the air passages which causes inflammation and
recurrent but reversible attacks of breathlessness. Tobacco also worsens asthmatic attacks and
may lead to the development of other lung diseases such as pneumonia. Air pollution The components of tobacco smoke are a dangerous form of air pollution. They are capable of
causing great harm to the human body. Smoke emitted from the burning end of a cigarette and
the smoke exhaled by a smoker is responsible for air pollution. This is hazardous to humans at
every stage of their lives but worse for children. Children exposed to tobacco smoke are found to
have reduced lung growth and function which affects them till adulthood. 