 [FILE] Godwin Obaseki.<br />Photo: Twitter/GovernorObaseki  The ultimatum was given at an expanded meeting of the party leaders from the 12 wards in Oredo Local Council at its Secretariat in Benin City, presided over by the Chairman, Goodwill Alabi. At the meeting, the leaders agreed to call on Okaeben, who represents Oredo East Constituency in the House, to toe the path of honour and apologise to Obaseki or risk being recalled as their representative. Reverend Michael Egharevba, who spoke on behalf of the leaders, said Okaeben has 48 hours to apologise to the governor or else the Oredo chapter of the party will have no option than to commence his recall. Reacting to the alleged plans to recall him if he fails to apologise to Obaseki within 48 hours, Okaeben said: “It is unfortunate at this level of our democratic surgeon in the country that some leaders cannot stand and speak for what is right. “Whereas I had alerted the party at the local council level that my life was being threatened, none of the leaders could speak for or against the threat to my life. “It is painful that the leaders of the party would allow themselves to be so used in this anti-democratic action that is in direct variance with the wellbeing of Oredo people.” Meanwhile, another chieftain of the APC in the state, Charles Idahosa, yesterday said National Chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole has turned himself into an of sorts emperor in Edo Politics. Idahosa, who accused Oshiomhole of playing the godfather in Edo politics, said he (Oshiomhole) was joking when he denied his godfather role in the state’s politics. “He brought Governor Obaseki and told us that he was the engine of his administration and today Obaseki has lived up to expectations of Edo people.” “Oshiomhole chose the Deputy Governor, Comrade Philip Shaibu, all the commissioners and Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Osarodion Ogie. So what is Oshiomhole denying?” “In fact, Oshiomhole brought the state party Chairman, Anselm Ojezua, its Secretary, Lawrence Okah and all council chairmen, he controls the party and everything. He wants to turn himself into a small emperor here and we will not accept that,” he stated. He added that if an idea does not come from Oshiomhole, it is rubbish because he claims he knows everything, adding: “Enough is enough of his high handedness.” Idahosa, however, argued that the current crisis in the state assembly happened because the former seems to be losing his hold on the state’s politics, saying he is guilty of what he accused former Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State of doing.” He added that Chief John Odigie-Oyegun was very correct when he said Oshiomhole was playing the godfather, maintaining: “Chief Odigie-Oyegun is a decent man and does not just talk because he wants to be heard. He is not a flippant person. He says things as they are.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .