 Architects  NIA chairman, Lagos chapter, Mr. Fitzergerald Umah  said  the design made up of one bedroom, two bedroom, three bedroom, four bedroom, was chosen from selected winners from a bootcamp organised by Sterling Bank Plc. The bootcamp, held last week had 10 participants, who worked  in three designs namely,  Ileeeko, Youtopia and Iletiwawa. Already, the institute is engaging  new Lagos government  for  land , while  wining design was presented to the Managing Director of the bank, Mr Abubakar Suleiman for its take-off. Umah, said for the house to be affordable, the land too must be affordable. The units will go between N1.5-  N3 million  per  unit for Studio, while three bedroom goes for between N7 million to N10 million.He commended the participants for their  efforts and how their entries with  unique features could help in solving the housing issue. He said; “We are developing a central community that would have an interesting layout from a bird’s eye view that would unite all classes of people with shared spaces such as  community centre, shopping mall, recreational spaces, schools, playgrounds, church, mosque, Healthcare centres, bicycle transport system and football arenas.” He stressed that the design consider a  good layout with exciting view from the top, infrastructure such as the road sizes, bicycle, drainage, sewage systems, electricity, water provision, and fire station,, tropical friendly and eco-friendly environment. It also has structural innovations with the use of wood and beam and structural elements to reduce the use of steel as much as possible and building materials that would be 70-80 per  locally sourced.Mrs. Medinat Kareem’  of Sterling Alternative  Finance said the project meant  a lot to the company  and assured of the bank’s readiness to  support the programme . Speaking at the bootcamp, Mr. Kunle Adedeji stressed that solving the housing challenge need professionals to think outside the box and yet within the confines of an affordable solution. The Managing Director  of the Bank,  expressed optimism with the designs  and pledged total support to the project. Speaking on the project, a participant and HND II architecture student of Yaba College of Technology, Yusuff Olamilekan,  expressed happiness with the experience in developing an affordable housing design for Lagosians. According to him, the boot camp gave him an opportunity to network with different people from different background architectural background   basically from different schools and associate to explore architectural regeneration of Lagos. He noted that the programme is a means of solving the housing deficits in Lagos. “We are looing at most visible solutions that address affordable housing  in the state.”He said they will  tried to incorporate  locally sourced materials  like  bamboos, and the wood  which is readily available. “We don’t want to go to steel and glass , it is quite  in the high end, we try to speak to Lagos as it is using what we have,” he said. Another participant,  Abang Effiong , who graduated  from Covenant University,  but works at  SkyPhis, Egbeda,   said  the design focused on flexibility  and adaptability.Also, Babalola Tobiloba, who graduated from  Bells University and works  at Anector Associate, Ikeja,  described the bootcamp as a wonderful experience as it help the participants to combine idea that could bring a collective solution to the housing needs of  Lagosians. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .