 [FILE PHOTO] IDP Camp  The decision comes on the heels of the one-year anniversary of the over 180 persons massacred in Gashish district of Barkin Ladi council area of the state by suspected herdsmen on June 23, 2018. General Agundu disclosed this at a peace dialogue with the communities during the event that held on Sunday at the Pilot Science Primary School, Kakuruk. Tagged “Peace and Reconciliation” aimed at building trust and bridges of peace among the settlements in the district after years of violence, the session witnessed cultural dances and messages of hope and peace. He stressed that if the people do not forgive one another, peace would be elusive, assuring them that security agencies had taken measures to protect lives and property. The commander urged the warring communities to be congenial to reconciliation. In his remarks, the member representing Barkin Ladi Constituency in the state House of Assembly, Peter Gyengdeng, described Agundu as Commander of Peace on the Plateau, noting that peace and unity were what his constituents needed. The transition committee chairman of the council, Dickson Chollom, admitted that the effort of the task force had brought relative peace to the area. Others who contributors charged the community to emulate their forefathers who embraced unity and brotherliness, pleading for reconstruction of destroyed infrastructure. President of Gashish Development Association, Francis Chollom, Gwong Rwei of Gashish, Dalyop Dangyang and the senator representing Plateau North in the National Assembly, Istifanus Gyang, gave messages of hope. Besides, the Akwa Ibom Government has dismissed the claim by the United Kingdom that the state was not insecure. In a statement yesterday in Uyo   by the secretary to the state government (SSG), Dr. Emmanuel Ekuwem, the Governor Udom Emmanuel administration stated that the “misrepresentation must have been based on past reports where the Niger Delta region was seen as a restive area,” as the agitation had become history on account of the “laudable intervention programmes” by government.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .