The Supreme court has restored the hope of the governorship candidate of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kano, Abba Kabiru Yusuf, to reclaim his victory before the election petition tribunal sitting in Kano. The seven member panel of the Justices of the apex court headed by Justice Bode Rhodes-Vivour on Tuesday upheld the judgement of the appeal court which affirmed the authenticity of Abba Yusuf as rightful gubernatorial candidate of the PDP in Kano. Delivery the judgement on the appeal filed by one of the PDP aspirants Ibrahim Ali-Amin (little), the apex court dismissed the petitioner’s application for lack of substance. Abba’s narrow scaled at the Supreme court as save him mental stress and devastation of losing all grand and justification to challenge Governor Ganduje Umar Ganduje’s victory at the ongoing election petition tribunal. Subsequent upon the Supreme judgement which cruise in his favor, Ganduje may have lost the technical missile to challenge Abba’s locus standi at the governorship tribunal. Prior to Apex court declaration, Ali-Amin had argued that Abba did not underwent any known credible process of nomination as stipulated by PDP, therefor queried his (Abba) grands to contest for party’s primaries. The petitioner also challenged the PDP primary election that produced Abba as party candidate asking the court to declare him as rightful candidate. Reacting to the Supreme court’s judgment, counsel to Abba, Barrister Bashir Yusuf Muhammad T/Wuzuchi expressed satisfaction over the declaration. Barrister Bashir told The Guardian that the outcome of the seven member panel has further restored the hope of a common man in the country’s judicial. On March 4, 2019, a Federal High Court sitting in Kano had sacked the Abba as governorship candidate of the People’s Democratic Party, (PDP) in Kano. The presiding judge of the Court, Justice Lewis Allagoa, ruled that the PDP did not conduct governorship primary election in the state. Ali-Amin had approached the Federal high court, challenging the process that led to the emergence of Abba as PDP gubernatorial candidate in Kano, insisted Abba’s emergence as PDP candidate did not followed unlawful process. In turn of event, a Court of Appeal sitting in Kaduna on 18 of April, upheld the appeal filed by Abba, challenging the judgement of Federal High Court in Kano, which ordered his sacked as the party’s candidate. In a judgement delivered by Justice Tanko Hussaini, the Appeal court discountenance the orders of the lower court, insisted the Judge of Federal High Court in Kano erred in law by assuming jurisdiction without the plaintiff, Ibrahim Ali-Amin, joining the necessary party, Abba Yusuf. The Judge of the Appeal court also queried Ali-Amin for lacked locus standi to institute action challenging the process that he did not participate in.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .