Vice Chairman, Regus, Ayo Akinmade Regus, a global workspace provider, has reiterated its resolve to focus on the future of virtual offices in Nigeria, as panacea to improving the nation’s economy. Vice Chairman, Regus, Ayo Akinmade, who said this at the opening of Regus Lekki office, explained that the virtual offices are designed to accommodate the area’s growing business community. He said: “The growing technological ecosystem makes Lekki the perfect place for Regus to open its next modern co-working space. This high-class office building offers a tailor-made space for everyone from small businesses to larger ones, and established corporations. It includes private offices, shared co-working spaces and meeting rooms. The space is designed to work for every business, facilitating ideas, sharing and networking all under one roof.” He described Lekki as a major commercial hub with a thriving economy, residential area, and tourist attraction centre in Lagos, making it the hottest location in demand. He said: “We are the leading global workspace provider. We have built an unparalleled network of office, co-working and meeting spaces for companies to use in every city in the world. It’s a global infrastructure built for businesses to support every opportunity. “Our network of workspaces enables businesses to operate anywhere, without the need for set-up costs or capital investment. It provides our customers with immediate cost benefits and the opportunity to fully outsource their office portfolio. Designed to enhance productivity and connect 2.5 million like-minded professionals, it’s an instant global community and a place to belong,” he said. Akinmade said: “Regus has been in Nigeria for 13 years now, and it is in 210 countries, with over 4000 office locations. In Nigerian we are in Abuja, Port Harcourt, and now Lagos. We provide first class office space for a fee. Unlike the usual system where you pay a year rent for your office, with Regus, you can use our office space for an hour, a day, or a month. We are looking for landlords to come to us so we can partner and give the best to Nigerians.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .