 In a bid to tackle the age old problem of skilled employment, Redrick Accelerate Workshop (RAW) hosted its RAWorkshop  The workshops, which are made up of series of crash courses are tailored towards undergraduates, graduates, and the unemployed youths to enhance skill sets and improve employability in the Nigerian workforce. This year’s RAWorkshop gathered experts with different areas of specialty under one roof who took participants in classes and talks. Workshop attendees were trained on practical courses such as excel mastering, attitude in the workplace, written and oral communications and leadership skills development. RAW 2019 kicked off in Lagos on Friday, June 13 with Edidrin Edewor, Award-winning Author and Entrepreneur, facilitating Written and Oral Communications, which focused on the importance of having great communications and breaking the barriers of effective oral skills. Founder, Futuresoft, Nkemdilim Begho took on the Leadership Development workshop which focused on how leadership helps maximize efficiency and achieving organizational goals with practical examples on how to display leadership in the workplace. Both workshops were extremely informative and resourceful to every participant who attended the Lagos edition of RAW. On Thursday, June 13, the RAW workshop train moved to the city of Ibadan, with two workshops being held. Founder Wilson’s Juice, Seun Abolaji took attendees through the beginners guide To MS Excel, which was extremely resourceful, and engaging. The attendees were impressed with the one-one interactions. Christan Mordi, Human Resources Manager, Kraks Media Limited conducted the workshop on attitude in the workplace. He emphasized how a good attitude in the workplace can contribute greatly to the overall company direction and the accomplishment of its goals and objectives. The second series of the Redrick Accelerate Workshop will kick off soon and interested participants are advised to stay in touch to find details for the next workshop, which is coming up soon. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .