 Ukachi  In John 1:33 we read, “I did not know Him, but He who sent me to baptise with water said to me, ‘Upon whom you see the Spirit descending, and remaining on Him, this is He who baptises with the Holy Spirit’ ” (John‬ 1:33‬ NKJV). The word ‘baptises,’ in this text is in the present tense.  In the New Testament, the Greek verb ‘baptise’ speaks of the time of action and the kind of action.  The ‘present’ tense speaks of a continuous action, literally ‘to keep on.’ That is to say, Jesus is the one who keeps on baptising us in and with the Holy Spirit. He comes to keep soaking us, drenching us, keeps on immersing us, keeps on filling us with the Holy Spirit, until we are completely soaked with the very presence of the Living God. We see this soaking by the Holy Spirit confirmed in the story of the early church! Jesus promised, on the day of Pentecost, ‘they were all filled with the Holy Spirit”(Acts 2:4). And then a few chapters later in Acts 4:31, the text says, “the place where they had gathered together was shaken, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit” (Acts 4:31). Thereafter, they went out in the power of the Holy Spirit to preach the gospel. All over the Church today we see symptoms of decay and deviation from God’s standards. All over the Church we see many heart-rending and disturbing trends happening. So, on this Pentecost Sunday, it is only appropriate we ask the Holy Spirit to do His work of restoration, healing and revival in the Church. We should ask Him to breathe a fresh air of His grace upon the Church so that He will bring conviction, repentance and soul-searching on all believers. The Psalmist must have faced the same lethargic situation we are in now when he prayed thus, “Will You not revive us again, That Your people may rejoice in You?” (Psalms‬ 85:6‬ NKJV). As we celebrate Pentecost Sunday, we need to deliberately ask the Lord for a fresh outpouring and baptism of His Spirit on His Church and the infilling of our personal lives. He is the One Who revives His Church from spiritual lethargy. We need to ask Him to restore His fear and glory in the Church. We need a fresh anointing upon His Church so that the zeal for His kingdom would be rekindled. There is the need for the restoration of holiness in the Church so that we shall live right. We need to see the gifts and fruit of the Holy Spirit operational again in the Church. The Church must rediscover it’s healing anointing and the Pentecostal power. We need fresh impetus for evangelism and missions restored. Like Isaiah, our desperate cry today must be this, “Oh, that You would rend the heavens! That You would come down! That the mountains might shake at Your presence— As fire burns brushwood, As fire causes water to boil— To make Your name known to Your adversaries, That the nations may tremble at Your presence! When You did awesome things for which we did not look, You came down, The mountains shook at Your presence” (Isaiah‬ 64:1-3‬ NKJV).
Contact:patoracukachi@hotmail.com ‬‬‬‬‬‬‬‬‬‬‬‬ To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .