Awara In its concerted efforts to end divisive politics and bickering in Rivers State, the Kula Supreme Council of Traditional Rulers has urged the 2019 governorship candidate of African Action Congress, (AAC) in the state, Mr. Biokpomabo Awara, to accept the olive branch offered by Governor Nyesom Wike. They stressed that since elections have come and gone, what is left is for patriotic citizens to strive to better the lives of the people, noting that all hands should be on deck to protect the interest of all Rivers people. The traditional rulers who hail from the same community as Awara – Kula kingdom in Akuku-Toru Local Government Area of the state – said the call was for the overall interest of peace and development in the state. Recall that the Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Amaechi, backed the AAC candidate, Awara, after court stopped All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State from fielding candidates for the 2019 general elections. Consequently, the move sparked serious crisis in the state, as Awara became the major challenger to Nyesom Wike. The development also occasioned political tension in the state, insecurity and loss of lives. After the protracted battle and suspension of the March 9 elections for three weeks, Governor Wike polled 888,264 votes to defeat the AAC candidate who polled 137,859 in the election. However, the political fight continued as Awara later dragged Wike to the Election Petition Tribunal. But following with the post-election peace initiative by Governor Wike, Awara’s community’s royal fathers at the weekend urged him to withdraw his case at the Election Petition Tribunal where he is challenging the re-election of Wike. The Chairman of Kula Supreme Council of Traditional Rulers, HRH King (Dr.) Kroma Amabibi Eleki, Sara XIV, Amanyanabo of Kula and the Secretary, HRH King Bourdillon Allen Ekine, Oko XXVIII, Amanyanabo of Opukula (Old Shipping) during a courtesy visit on the AAC governorship candidate in Abuja, said it was time to end divisive politics and fighting in Rivers State. King Eleki appealed to the AAC candidate whom he referred to as our son to accept the olive branch being offered by Wike in the overall interest of peace and development of Rivers State. He said their decision to seek out-of-court solution to the Rivers State governorship tussle was borne out of genuine desire to reduce political tension and insecurity in the state occasioned by political activities. King Eleki said, “Let us work together with the present administration so that there will be peace, harmony and unity in our Rivers State. We cannot continue to struggle; we cannot continue to fight; we cannot continue to argue. That is why we are here to plead with you as your fathers that, please, let’s put a stop to what is going on and let us accept the olive branch stretched out to us by the Executive Governor of Rivers State so that we can work together for the progress and development of our dear state.’’ Also speaking, the Secretary of Kula Supreme Council of Traditional Rulers, King Ekine, said the council would also seek audience with the governor in order to consolidate on its reconciliation and peace move in the state. According to King Ekine, “Now that Kula has achieved peace, we want him to withdraw his case in court and let there be peace in Rivers State. As there is peace in Kula, peace should also be in Rivers State. That is our mission to Abuja. “We want the gubernatorial candidate of AAC, Engr. Biokpomabo Awara, to obey us who are his royal fathers by withdrawing his case from the court and work with the incumbent Governor Nyesom Wike to move Rivers State forward. The governor is also our son; we are traditional rulers of all. We are the royal fathers of the whole state” In his response, Awara assured the royal fathers that he would revert to them after consulting with the leadership of his party and other relevant stakeholders in the state on the appeal made to him to withdraw his case at the tribunal. Awara said, “You have given me a task. I have to consult. I will revert back to you after meeting all relevant stakeholders that are involve in this. It is not just about me, Biokpomabo Awara. It is about Rivers people. Like I said, I will revert back to you after consulting with stakeholders, and the needed peace that you want, God being who He is, we will achieve that peace in our dear state.” Some Kula chiefs who also spoke at the meeting commended Governor Wike for showing sincerity in his peace initiative and for promising to involve the opposition in his government.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .