 Vice President Prof. Osinbajo  Beyond that, the apparent shared chemistry found vent in a few things both did while the meeting was underway at the American number two man’s office even as the duo are said to have shared commonalities in views and feelings. Rubbishing the existence of any religious agenda, U.S. sources informed The Guardian that Osinbajo, among other issues explained how President Muhammadu Buhari took personal interest and ensured the release of over 100 Chibok girls, who were abducted under the previous government. Osinbajo was said to have explained that it took Buhari, a Moslem a couple years after the Christian girls were abducted to secure their release. This information, the sources further alleged, came as a “revelation” to Pence, who had been given the impression that Buhari was deliberately holding back from working for the release of Leah Sharibu because she is a Christian. The American government then offered to further assist the Federal Government in securing Sharibu and other abducted girls freedom. Pence also asked the Nigerian government not to relent in its effort towards ensuring the  release all the abducted girls. Osinbajo, it was gathered also explained to Pence, how Buhari was himself attacked by terrorists in 2014. As both vice presidents bantered and took private moments to chat in the office and outside while Pence saw Osinbajo to his car, aides of both leaders were surprised at the instant chemistry and accord that they share. In fact, Pence, who had the option of seeing Osinbajo to
the door inside his office complex, or at most to the exit door outside, opted to walk his guest all the way outside the gates that lead to the White House and waited till Osinbajo’s car drove off. “They spoke almost as long inside as they did outside,” revealed a United States source. Although reliable sources disclose that the idea of the meeting was birthed by the American Embassy in Abuja, the Nigerian government actually requested for the meeting, and Pence welcomed it. Both vice presidents also shared some of their Christian faith values at the meeting in the White House before Pence asked his guest to say a word of prayer at the end of the meeting, according to sources. Osinbajo, who obliged, prayed for the prosperity of both governments and their people.A US official who observed the visit, noted that the “friendship that seems to have been established between both leaders will add fresh impetus to the US-Nigerian relations, as they both have developed a deep sense of mutual trust.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .