 Ekiti state governor, Kayode Fayemi. PHOTO:  NAN  The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that a new 26-member Assembly made up of members of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) would be inaugurated on Thursday. Fayemi signed the bills into law at an event held at the Government House, Ado Ekiti. According to Fayemi, his action was to further demonstrate the strong political will of his administration to always implement good laws for the people of the state. Bills assented to include the Ekiti State Development and Investment Promotion Agency Law 2019, Ekiti State Administration of Civil Justice Law 2019, and College of Agriculture and Technology Reenactment Law 2019. Others are Ekiti State Logo Reenactment Law 2019, Ekiti State Local Government Administration Law 2019 and Ekiti State Property Protection and Anti Land Grabbing Law 2019. The rest are Ekiti State Security Trust Fund Amendment Law 2019 and Ekiti State Waste Management Authority Repeal Law 2019. The governor gave an assurance that the laws, including those before it, would be implemented to ensure the overall development of the state. “History is made in different forms, but I consider our partnership as a historic partnership, not minding that many of you came from the PDP, while the executive branch that took over on Oct. 16, 2018, was from the APC. “Some believe that the two parties can’t have points of engagement, but this was not so. I always talked about belonging to Ekiti and that is what you have done. “I cannot recall any time in the last 20 years when eight bills were signed into law, so this is significant and these are laws that are important to our state. “The Administration of Civil Justice Law was pioneered by Ekiti State. Some of the laws like,  “Land Grabbing Law” will help us tackle some of our challenges with land owners. “As you have rounded off today, this is not the end of the road for you, with the way you have demonstrated your love for this state. “That culture of belonging to Ekiti party, you are all exemplars of it and I commend you, ” he said. Addressing the gathering, the outgoing Speaker of the House, Ebenezer Alagbada, said that the assembly had been able to pass 10 bills since Fayemi took over. “We also thank his Excellency for the South African trip that we made. This journey had enriched our knowledge of legislation and I know the Clerk will relay such knowledge to our successors to guide them in their duties. “We must learn how to separate politics from governance by doing our best and operating with love in whatever capacity we find ourselves. ” The last four years have been so eventful. We have come, we saw and we have conquered, “he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .