 [FILES] PDP leader, Secondus  Bola Ajao, the party’s state spokesman, said Awosiyan Olalekan Kingsley, Ojetade Thomas, Awodire Sina Peter, Olatunji Rasheed Olabayo and Oluwasegun Idowu, were suspended for insubordination and gross anti-party activities. “The Osun State PDP Executive Committee hereby formally adopt the recommendation that the following affected members be EXPELLED from the party for their insubordination and gross anti-party activities,” Ajao said in the expulsion statement. Three of the expelled members, Olalekan, Thomas and Peter, had filed a case against Ademola Adeleke, PDP’s governorship candidate for Osun State September 2018 poll. The three approached an Osun State High Court alleging that Adeleke submitted a fake certificate to get the party’s ticket for the poll. The zonal secretary of the party, Rev. Bunmi Jenyo, in November 2018, accused the three members to have “employed blackmail to destabilise the party for reasons best known to them.” Jenyo said the three were put under investigations for possible sanction on account of them suing Adeleke. “Party constitution is meant to be obeyed as internal mechanisms for conflict resolution is a constitutional requirement,” Ajao said. Meanwhile, the counsel to three, Olufemi Ayandokun Esq. has faulted their expulsion. He said the decision of the party against the trio constituted an assault on the judicial system. Ayandokun said his clients had since 2018 sought a court order setting aside the suspension which was granted by the court and was duly served to the party. “It came to us therefore as a rude shock to hear the news making the rounds and orchestrated by a statement signed by Bola Ajao, Osun State Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party that Messrs Awosiyan Olalekan Kingsley, Ojetade Thomas and Awodire Sina Peter who are members of the Peoples Democratic Party in Osun State have been expelled from the Peoples Democratic Party,” Ayandokun said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .