Nusaibah Kofar-Naisa The Africa Business Process Outsourcing industry got another boost as one of the players in that space Outsource Global, expanded its services to Japan. Speaking at the just concluded Japan IT Week, the founder and Chief Executive Officer of Outsource Global, Amal Hassan, said that they are particularly excited about the strategic expansion. “It not only allows us to serve the Japanese market, it is also an entry point for us to provide a full range of outsourced services to the Asian market. We are also thankful to ITC SheTrades for facilitating our participation at the Japan IT Week thereby giving us the platform to have these strategic conversations.” Asia is the world’s fastest growing economic region, with an estimated yearly GDP growth of 5.7 per cent. Within that region, Japan is the second best economy by GDP growth and third wealthiest in terms of GDP per capita. The Chief Operations Officer (COO), Outsource Global, Nusaibah Kofar-Naisa, stressed that with Japan being the 23rd wealthiest nation in the world, and home to global automobile giants we are confident of their capability to serve this new market. “Our over 800 agents are spread across three locations in Nigeria and our facilities have the capacity to cater for over 2,000 remote teams who can work with organisations around the world”. The company’s participation at the Japan IT Week which was sponsored by SheTrades is an initiative of the International Trade Centre, with a mandate to connect three million women owned businesses to international markets by 2021. Outsource Global is one of the biggest and leading Africa business and knowledge process outsourcing firms based in Nigeria. Their recent expansion to Japan comes on the heels of the earlier announcement of their expansion to the UK where they will provide outsourced data training, software development, telesales and marketing as well as remote professional services to leading organisations across the world. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .