 Senate President Ahmad Lawan presiding over the second plenary of the 9th Senate having been inaugurated on Tuesday, the 11th Of June, 2019. Photo/Twitter/nassnigeria  Lawan said that there were several areas for both countries to build on their collaborations and partnerships, adding that Nigerians should learn from the successes of the United States post 243 years of independence.He urged Nigerians to learn to live together in spite of their differences, ethnicity and religion just like the U.S. The President of the Senate noted that Nigeria is a great country with all the potentials to be among the greatest in the world, stating that the diversity of the country is supposed to be the nation’s source of strength. “How the Americans were able to live for 243 years, using their power of diversity, every part of Nigeria has something to contribute to national development.“Nigerians, both within the country outside, are people of determination, very patriotic and loyal. “I pray and hope that those of us in leadership positions will continue to give the right leadership, we should bring our people together.“We should ensure that this country remains united and focused, and that rule of law prevails. Speaking with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) Sen. Abba Moro representing Benue South Senatorial District, also called for strengthened partnership between both countries in all aspects of nation building. Morro said that Nigeria was facing serious challenges of insurgency and terrorism at the moment, which the American government has and would further need to help Nigeria to tackle. “America and Nigeria have had a wonderful level of relationship, of course there are challenges here and there but I think that the two countries have a lot to mutually benefit. “Nigeria is facing one of the greatest challenges of insurgency and terrorism at the moment, and I believe that the partnership between both countries will go a long way in ameliorating the current situation of insurgency. “The Nigerian Government and the US should be able to go into some level of strategic partnership for the purpose of helping the people of Nigeria to overcome the problem of insecurity in the country.“I believe that in international relations, Nigeria will need a big country like the U.S,” Moro said. Moro said that being from an agrarian state, he would be interested in facilitating any strategic relationship between Nigeria and America to ensure that the country benefits from the experience of America in its drive for food sufficiency. He said that Nigerian had a lot to learn from America, which was celebrating its 243rd independence, especially as the country’s government was structured after that of America. He explained that every growing democracy had its challenges, hence the need to model after a nation that has functioned effectively for as long as 243 years.Morro called on Nigerians to remain peaceful, united and focused in other to build a great nation.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .