 [FILE PHOTO] EFCC  The anti-graft agency introduced the process that compels a whistleblower to sign undertaking, including taking an oath, before filing allegation of corruption, to check unfolding abuse of the policy. Zonal head, Kano office, Garba Dugum, revealed this yesterday in Kano at a training workshop on budget tracking and project monitoring for civil society organisations (CSOs) in northern Nigeria. Dugum, who lamented series of petitions filed by supposed whistleblowers, which were later found to be false declaration, insisted that EFCC deemed it pertinent to initiate the new policy to check needless allegations. Represented by the head, economic governance, Kano office, Sani Mohammed, he reminded them the extent false declaration could damage reputation, insisting that EFCC was also conscious of engaging on needless litigation false petitions could ignite. “Talking about the success of the whistleblower policy in Kano, I am sure you are aware the case of former Group Managing Director (GMD) of Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Andrew Yakubu, emanated from Kano. Though the case is still in Kano. If you convert the monies involved, you are talking of billions of naira. “That was why EFCC introduced oath-taking by whistleblowers, to ensure that information given is correct. The commission will not hesitate to prosecute any person who gives false information, simply because you want to settle scores with another person,” says Dugum. He said EFCC’s doors were open for intelligence, just as he applauded efforts of the CSOs in raising critical cases of corruption and exposing ills in the society. Professor Mohammad Fagge of Bayero University Kano (BUK) tasked the CSOs on independence and self-funding in the discharge of their duties. The professor of political science stressed that subjecting activities of CSOs to government or individuals’ sponsorship would reduce their objectivity. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .