Dr. Gloria Elemo Federal Institute of Industrial Research, Oshodi, (FIIRO), in collaboration with Chemical Society of Nigeria, Women in Chemistry has advocated proper policies to bridge the gap between academia and industry to facilitate economic growth. Speaking at the second training workshop for women chemists in Lagos, titled crystallizing the synergy in chemical science between academia and industry, former Director General DG/ Chief Executive Officer (CEO) FIIRO, Prof. Gloria Elemo, said for many years in Nigeria, there has been a serious concern over the wide gap between the academia and industry, which many stakeholders saw as the reason for low productivity and poor economic growth. The DG, who was represented by Dr. Chika Ezeanyanaso, stated that bridging the gap between women chemists, in academia and industry; would help to address the economic challenges that Nigeria is facing, as well as economic diversification. Elemo noted that healthy engagement between academics, industries and policy makers is essential to the provision of informed, evidence-based, world class policy making in the various areas of chemistry. She said: “University industry research collaborations between women chemists merge basic and applied research. Incremental research and product development often occur in industrial labs. However, industry scientists report that when they are involved in breakthrough discoveries, it is important to maintain close alliances with university researchers so that they can gain a better understanding of the science that underlies the discovery”. National Coordinator, Chemical Society of Nigeria, Women in Chemistry Dr. Cynthia Nkolika, said lack of collaboration between universities, research institutes and industries is known to be affecting economic growth in various developing countries like Nigeria. She explained that the benefits of academia-industry linkages are far-reaching and necessary in coordinating research and development agenda, exploiting synergies and completing science and technological capacities. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .