 APC Chairman, John Odigie-Oyegun  But his predecessor in office, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, blamed the ex-labour leader for the unsavoury development.Reacting to the decision of the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) on the issue, the one-time governor likened Oshiomhole’s position to committing anti-party infractions against the dictates of the political grouping. Speaking through his Special Assistant on Political Affairs, Chief Ray Murphy, he warned the APC chief not to “distract Governor Godwin Obaseki from administering Edo State.”However shrugging off the allegation of his playing the godfather in the entire saga in a chat at the weekend in Abuja, the Oshiomhole described the claims as wild imaginations. He said: “What is the evidence? It is all about accusation. The media has a duty. They have to give you the particulars of that godfatherism. What is the evidence? I am a democrat. “That I accept the credit, not only that I fought godfatherism, I launched the one man, one vote campaign to fight against election rigging anywhere in Nigeria and by the special grace of God under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) with Chief Tony Anenih alive, and at his best, I won all the 18 local government areas and 95 per cent of the total votes cast in my second term election.” “So, Edo people know me and I know them. I do not need a shortcut to sustain my position in the system. But you know that there is nobody in Nigeria who is not open to accusations. The important thing is that he who accuses should prove.”Oshiomhole went on: “It is about rule of law. As journalists, there are questions you do not need to ask me because you know the answer. You know the law provides for how the House should be proclaimed transparently. “The day it is announced, members-elect are informed of the date and time for inauguration. These are clearly spelt out in the Nigerian constitution. And just last week (about two weeks ago), you were all witnesses to how President Muhammadu Buhari issued a proclamation letter to the Clerk many days before, stating the date and time of the inauguration of the two chambers of the National Assembly.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .