 [FILES] Madam Rebecca Sharibu, mother of Leah Sharibu, sobs while at a press conference.<br />  Although he did not mention a specific figure, it was, however, learnt that the sum could not be less than N7.5 million. Asked to mention Saraki’s severance allowance, his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Yusuph Olaniyonu, who issued a statement on the donation, declared that it was the duty of the National Assembly management to arrive at the figure. It was further learnt that the Kwara ex-governor’s severance package was 300 per cent of his salary. In the statement, Saraki explained that the pay should be used to support the families of Leah Sharibu, who is still being held by the Boko Haram sect for refusing to renounce her Christian faith, and two humanitarian workers abducted and subsequently murdered by the insurgents, Hussaini Ahmed Khoisan and Hauwa Liman. Also to benefit from the money are children of late members of the Eight Senate who may require financial assistance in furtherance of their education, as a trust fund is to be established by the management of the National Assembly for that purpose. Saraki stated that his decision was based on the fact that their cases represented some of the most touching humanitarian issues debated at plenary during his four-year reign in the upper legislative chamber. According to him, 20 per cent of the fund is to be donated to the Sharibu family while 20 per cent goes to the Limans. Another 20 per cent is for the Khoisans. The balance 40 per cent is for the National Assembly management to set up a trust fund to cater for the needy children of late lawmakers in the outgoing assembly. The number three citizen added: “It is my hope that this Trust Fund should grow with more contribution from my dear colleagues, present, past and future, who may be moved to put in additional money into it. “The Clerk of the National Assembly will immediately get an official letter from me mandating him to act as stated above on the disbursement of my severance allowance.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .