 Aramide  The Ayokunumi singer joins 18 other people in the music business to be inducted into the Recording Academy Governing board of the Grammys. Aramide will serve on the Washington D.C. Chapter Board that also covers Maryland, West Virginia and Virginia The singer who has been an active voting member of the Recording Academy for several years and previously served on the committees of the Academy, took to her social media handles — Twitter and Instagram page — yesterday to announce this landmark achievement. The music star in a series of tweets, reminisced on the time she started singing and how she wanted to just be heard. She went on to reveal that after being an active voter of the Grammys Recording Academy for years, she finally gets to be inducted in its board. “I’m most definitely proud of where the music has brought me, proud of the many lives it has touched, proud of the people I have been able to inspire and encourage through music. I’m proud of the beautiful stories I have been able to tell. “And today I’m happy to announce to you that after being an active voting member of the recording academy for years, this Monday, I will be inducted into the Recording Academy (the GRAMMYs) Governance Board. I will now be a part of the Governors for the Washington DC Chapter board,” she tweeted. Aramide isn’t the only celebrity who has been able to achieve such level of greatness. About a year ago, actress cum singer, Omotola Jalade-Ekeinde was invited to become a member of the Oscars award body. Back in 2018, Omotola was among the new members invited to join the group behind the Oscars film awards. The actress, alongside Nigerian filmmaker, Femi Odugbemi (Battleground, Gidi Blues) are among the 928 people who have been invited to join the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Science. The Recording Academy (the GRAMMYs) is an organization of musicians, songwriters, producers, engineers, and recording professionals that is dedicated to improving the cultural condition and quality of life for music and its makers. The Academy continues to focus on its mission of recognizing musical excellence, advocating for the well-being of music makers, singers, songwriters, engineers, producers, managers, and other professionals working in the music industry.