PHOTO: Lagos state governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu addressing LASTMA officials on Friday 14th June 2019 Lagos State governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu Friday announced a 100 percent increase in the allowance for the staff of Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA). “Today, I visited the LASTMA office to interact with the officers on how to improve travel time within Lagos,” Sanwo-Olu said on Twitter on Friday. “I also announced a 100% increase in their allowance effective from July,” he added The allowance increase is one of the governor’s bid to demonstrate his determination to eliminate traffic gridlocks in Lagos State. Sanwo-Olu during his campaign had promised to ensure eradication of gridlocks on roads if elected governor in the 2019 elections. “I have come up with five levels of plans called the five pillars. The first one is traffic management and transportation, we are going to be heavy on that, “Sanwo-Olu said during an interview on Channels Television breakfast programme, Sunrise Daily in December 2018. “I have done a study in the last six weeks, people have complained a lot about traffic management,” he added. Traffic gridlock has remained a huge challenge in Lagos State, especially during the rainy season and the festive period. Often times armed robbers usually take advantage of the gridlock to rob motorists and commuters. Besides, the security challenges it poses, the gridlocks also have a major economic impact. According to reports, $10 billion is lost annually due to the notorious gridlock around the Apapa axis of the state. The governor had also in May signed an Executive Order titled: Enforcement of Law and Order in Respect of Traffic and Sanitation Matters. He said his government would have zero tolerance for environmental abuse, including, disregard for traffic rules, illegal and indiscriminate dumping of refuse, construction on drainage points and obstructions.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .