 Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq of Kwara. Photo/Twitter/RealAARahman  The governor said this while addressing workers during his impromptu visit to the radio station. AbdulRazaq said the total breakdown of operations at the state broadcasting outfit typifies the general rots in the state, which his administration would address with the support of the public. “I want you to realise that you (in Radio Kwara) are not worse off than any other sector in the state. The situation is the same everywhere. “I cannot use my office at the moment because it is in a state of disrepair and one wonders what they were using our money for. “I was just coming from Oyun Water Works now and the last time they had water was over six months ago. “So, we are starting from below zero. We need your support to pull through. “They are about to start their own radio station to attack us even when they have killed the one that belongs to all of us,” the governor said. AbdulRazaq pledged to quickly look into the problem of the station, especially the FM arm where the specifics of the problems and solutions have been identified along with their cost implications. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that Radio Kwara had gone off air for over three months owing to the lack of basic equipment to operate. The staff of the station took turns to explain that all the equipment at the radio station have either become non serviceable or too weak owing to years of neglect or their age. They urged the governor to intervene to save the state’s Radio Station. Earlier, the governor visited the Oyun Water Works, which supplies water to Offa, Igosun, Omupo and some other communities in the Kwara South Senatorial District. He said the officials would be given a week deadline to deliver water to some communities after they have received the required funding to get what they need for the assignment. NAN reports that the visit came barely two weeks after AbdulRazaq directed the Ministry of Water Resources to deliver water to identifiable parts of the state within the next 100 days of his administration. The governor, however, promised that they would get all the support needed to deliver and warned that he may wield the stick if the affected officials fail to meet the target.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .