In the wake of the rape protests going on at the Commonwealth of Zion Assembly (COZA) branches, a pro-Biodun Fatoyinbo protester has revealed that he was paid N10,000 to protest in support of the embattled pastor. A protester, obviously not a member of the church, said each person was paid N10, 000 to support the pastor. Busola Dakolo, a former chorister in the church alleged that she was raped by the senior pastor, Biodun Fatoyinbo when she was 17. In reaction to this, the pastor issued a statement insisting that even as an unbeliever, he never raped anyone and promised to take her to court. It should be recalled that in 2013, Ese Walters, a former member of the church accused Fatoyinbo of sexual assault, a case he promised to give a “robust response” but he is yet to do so. Unlike Walters’s scenario, Busola Dakolo’s revelation birthed a massive outcry against the pastor so much that he had to respond late on Friday. Expectedly, many Nigerians on social media have condemned the alleged hiring of a crowd to support the pastor. This is disgraceful…church hired placards. Fatoyinbo’s minions. pic.twitter.com/kB7CY0RVPq — Tamunodenyefa (@prayziz) June 30, 2019  Pro-#COZA protester in Abuja confesses that he was given N10,000 by the church to march in solidarity for #biodunfatoyinbo #ChurchToo #PastorStepDown pic.twitter.com/P9DjIZE216 — Legit.ng (@legitngnews) June 30, 2019  COZA, if y'all are gonna hire paid protesters to defend Pastor Biodun, at least hire the literate ones naa.Don't embarrass yourselves. What manner of fuckerry is this? This one thinks it's APC Vs PDP rally #PastorStepDown pic.twitter.com/RVawyl1byR — teQ™ (@wired_physician) June 30, 2019  Guysssss I’m dying!!!!! The paid protesters are holding the signs upside down and sideways  https://t.co/2XdY1dU0Oz — Princess the flannfluga vagina holster🦹‍ (@princessalaafia) June 30, 2019  So COZA pastor paid protesters to to counter protest the protesting that was protested against him and you still feel that he is innocent? pic.twitter.com/fcuKx6cKca — Its Young_E (@D_Gentle_One) June 30, 2019  Meanwhile,  Fatoyinbo has charged their members not to speak or come against the protesters but act in a Christ-like manner while disclosing that their annual 7 Days of Glory programme has been cancelled. Coza Pastor Biodun Fatoyinbo advising his church members not to fight with any of the protesters outside the church but He didn’t mention a single thing about the rape matter he is being accused of doing!! And everyone is there hailing him  #stepdownpastor #COZA pic.twitter.com/WUkaiHKZko — Kunta Kunte™ (@Nifemi_99) June 30, 2019 