 Edo Assembly  While the Bauchi Assembly is currently in disarray after 11 out of the 32 lawmakers and the remaining others elected two Speakers in separate elections, the Edo Assembly is under tension, after nine out of the 24 members elected the Speaker with the backing of Governor Godwin Obaseki. The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, described the developments as a charade, saying: “We viewed this illegality with shock and disappointment. As a party that has made a commitment to change, we strongly reject any attempt to take recourse to brigandage of the past, when democratic practices were defined by the inordinate whims of people in power. “Democracy must be governed by the rule of law. A situation where 11 lawmakers in the 31-member Bauchi Assembly and nine lawmakers in the 24-member Edo Assembly were secretly “inaugurated” and purportedly “elect” principal officers behind closed doors is a joke and an embarrassment. “It is an unfortunate reminder of PDP’s queer brand of democracy. Practices like this are unacceptable under the APC-led administration. As a party that is committed to higher ideals, we would use all democratic means necessary to ensure the right thing is done.”
 
Also condemning the development, a former member of the House of Representatives and current Chairman of Yoruba socio-cultural group, Afenifere Renewal Group (ARG), Wale Oshun, described the situation as the height of impunity that must be condemned in totality.
 
While agreeing that the election of the Speaker and Deputy Speaker must be done at the plenary in the House, he said the lawmakers must form the quorum, as it is imperative that all lawmakers-elect must be present and the attendance ought to be more than half.
 
According to him: “Anybody that is supporting what happened in Edo and Bauchi Assemblies is backing arrant nonsense. This also indicated that Nigeria does not have democracy yet, but civil rule.”
 
Oshun said it is time for the governors to move away from the mentality of militarising our democracy through unconstitutional proclamation.  In his reaction, yesterday, Azinge insisted that the two scenarios were not in line with the constitutional guideline, noting that the Houses must be properly constituted or seated, rather than the emergency sitting with the intention of alienating some members.  APC stated further in the statement: “Perhaps the actors in the inauguration sham in Edo and Bauchi need to be reminded of the recent and widely-commended election of presiding officers in the newly-inaugurated 9th National Assembly. Our party has set new standards in party politics by upstaging the rule of force, while upholding the rule of law. 
 
“It needs restating that every elected lawmaker has a legitimate right to participate unhindered in the inauguration of the legislative arm in which he/she belongs. The plot to arm-twist the majority in favour of the minority in the legislative arm died with the defeat of the PDP in 2015.  There has been tension in the state since the inauguration of the Assembly due to disagreement among lawmakers over the election of presiding officers. The PDP leaders, who would not want to be mentioned in print because of lack of clearance to speak on the matter, however, said the party was studying the situation with a view to coming out with proper official position on the matter. “We are, however, aware that some unscrupulous elements who had lost out in the last general elections in Bauchi State are playing a game aimed at causing crisis within the state. “I can tell you that such people are being monitored thoroughly. The PDP administration in Bauchi is interested in only those things that would promote good governance for the people of the state and any plot to distract that government will be resisted by the party,” they warned. In parliamentary practice, one-third of the members of the House of Assembly are required to form a quorum and once a quorum is formed, the House can carry out any legislative business. This is clearly provided for in Section 96(1) of the Constitution (as amended), which reads:
“The quorum of a House of Assembly shall be one-third of all the members of the House.” In the inauguration, the Clerk of the Assembly, who must have been appointed in line with the provisions of the Act of parliament, is in charge. After reading a Proclamation that must have been issued by the State Governor for the inauguration of the House on a particular date, the Clerk proceeds by announcing the business of the day, which in this case, is the election of presiding officers. Specifically, on how the Clerk should be appointed, Section 93 of the constitution states: “There shall be a Clerk to a House of Assembly and such other staff as may be prescribed by a law enacted by the House of Assembly and the method of appointment of the Clerk and other staff of the House shall be as prescribed by that Law.” Before the day of inauguration, the Proclamation would have been properly publicised in such a manner that every member-elect would be aware of the date for the inauguration. The Clerk, after taking the roll call of members present and ensuring that the quorum has been formed, would read out the procedure for electing the presiding officers of the House. Usually, the only procedure is as spelt out in the Standing Rule of the Assembly, which the Clerk would read out and ensure that it is properly complied with. Once the Speaker and his Deputy have been elected, the Clerk’s assignment is concluded and the Speaker takes full charge by presiding over the inauguration of other members-elect. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .