 Niger State Governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello (left), Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong, 20th National President, NACCIMA, Hajia Saratu Iya Aliyu, wife of former head of state, General Abdulsalam, Justice Fati Abdulsalam, General Abdulsalam Abubakar, Kogi State governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello and Jigawa State Governor, Alhaji Badaru Abubakar<br />  When children are born, they can be faced with various skin problems, which is in reaction to the weather or adapting to the condition of the “new” environment they find themselves, hence they break out in form of rashes, boils. This has even led many new mums into trying the old wives’ tales of using various herbal substances to help their children heal. For founder, Amal Botanicals Natural Baby Skin Solutions, Zuwaira Ikharo Shuaib, it is important to take care of the skin of children especially infants, as newborn skin is delicate and so is the baby’s immune system. Chemicals, fragrances, and dyes in clothing, detergents, and baby products can cause newborn skin irritation, dryness, chafing, and rashes. That is why it’s advisable to use only natural and organic products for infants. On what parents should look out for when getting a skincare product for their kids, she said that children have thinner and more delicate skin than adults, so their skin is more sensitive to irritation. “Choose a moisturiser that is made for children and dermatologist tested, and apply it to your child’s body and face right after every bath (within two or three minutes) to seal in the moisture. Proper moisturiing can help protect sensitive skin from irritation. “Avoid products that contain PABA, as these can irritate the skin. And don’t forget the lips – apply a sunscreen lip balm to your child’s lips.” While there are a lot of parents out there who seeks lightening cream products for their children, Shuaib said that the effects of skin lightening or toning products are numerous, ranging from local effects which are visible on the skin, to serious systemic effects within the body and cannot be seen. The effects on children range from skin thinning, discolouration, rashes and irritation to acne. On the effect of using non-organic products on the skin of a child, she added that the rates of illness and disease would rise. “There are increasing studies showing the connection between illness and chemicals. We need to eliminate or reduce exposure to synthetics. Synthetics are simply not necessary in skincare and in many cases synthetics are downright scary. “These ingredients are often fast-acting and invasive. Sometimes they are causing harm we cannot see. Often this exposure rears its ugly head as skin irritation, chronic headaches, cancers, breathing disabilities, hormone disruption among others.” She added that it is quite important to use organic products as it improves the health of a child, as it only takes one gentle touch of a baby’s tender skin to know it is incredibly delicate and needs the very best care. Using organic baby products is not only the best way to keep that precious baby skin soft and nourished, but it can make a significant difference to your baby’s overall health. “When you consider the idea of those tiny little bodies absorbing all those heavy metals and chemicals, it’s enough to make you seriously consider something better. After all, who doesn’t want the safest, healthiest products for their little ones? “As a mum of triplets, using Natural Baby Skin Solutions has helped me to nurture my premature triplets who turned three years old recently. They used Amal Botanicals Baby Skin Solutions, which goes beyond the skin. The product helps strengthen their immune system. We can boldly say that they have never been down with Malaria since they were born. Please make that switch today and also ensure you use natural products which have been carefully formulated.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .