 Vice Chairman of the Committee – Senate Committee on Privatisation, Yahaya Abdullahi. Photo/Twitter/senatorabdullahiyahaya/  Abdullahi(APC-Kebbi) told News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja that the group was working hard to prevent loose ends that might affect Lawan’s emergence. He said the group was impressed with positive responses from senators-elect so far, adding that they were just waiting for the appointed date.“We are sure we will have the day by the grace of God and support of majority of our colleagues. “So far, we are happy and encouraged by the support we have received from our colleagues. They have shown confidence in Sen. Ahmed Lawan’s capacity to deliver and unite the Senate. “We repose confidence in the capacity of Sen. Ahmad Lawan to steer the ship. On meeting with Sen. Ali Ndume and other contenders, the lawmaker said Lawan was engaging with them. He, however, dismissed insinuations that Lawan’s group was at daggers drawn with other contenders, pointing out that they were friends and not enemies. “They are our colleagues. At least for me, i have spent at least four years with them and they are highly respected colleagues of mine. “This contest is not between enemies, it is between friends and I assure that going forward, all these issues will be resolved. “In fact, recently we were all present at the wedding of Sen. Danjuma Goje’s daughter, so, I feel people are only exaggerating what is happening in the build up to the election’’, Abdullahi said. On the Supreme Court judgment in favour of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Zamfara State, Abdullahi said there was no course for concern. He said despite losing three senatorial seats to the opposition in Zamfara, the All Progressives Congress (APC) was still leading with over 60 senators-elect out of 107, with two vacant seats in Imo State. The lawmaker said with the statistics, APC still stand a good chance of producing the next president of the senate. “Right now the seats that have been acknowledged by INEC are 107. Out of the number, APC has 62, PDP has 44 and YPP has one. So, the Zamfara case of course is a big setback for our party but we are still in the majority. “Beyond this however, the issue is not about party, once we converge in the chamber, we become senators of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “So, what we want to do in the 9th senate is to unite lawmakers as much as possible and work for the good of Nigerians. “The issue is for us to work together with other arms of government in the spirit of give and take, and respect for the independence of each arm of government. On mode of voting likely to be adopted in electing leaders of the 9th senate, Abdullahi said parliamentary practice was open world over. According to him, based on that, the 9th senate will strive to keep to the tradition as much as possible in order to be accountable to the people. “The only way to have open practice is to ensure that in everything we do whether election or other activities, we send the record to our constituents. “When you look at the United States, one of the major issues they take into account in voting Congress men and senators is their voting record.“Everybody stands up and answers his name. For me, what happened in the national assembly in 2015 was a charade. “We only allowed it to settle because we did not want to raise dust but i do not think that is keeping with normal parliamentary practice.“We will try to adhere to the normal principles of established parliamentary practice across the globe in the 9th senate’’. With the 8th Senate coming to an end on June 6, contenders for leadership of the 9th senate are not resting on their oars in getting major stakeholders particularly senators-elect to buy into their agenda for the next four years.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .