The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) may have snubbed an alleged move by the chairman of Delta Sports Commission, Tony Okowa to conduct elections into the board of the State Football Association on June 9.  Delta FA, led by acting chairman, Edema Fuludu had scheduled the elections for June 13, but the Sports Commission has fixed June 9 for the polls into the state FA. The Guardian learnt yesterday that the NFF warned Tony Okowa against conducting a parallel FA election in the state, saying it would deal ruthlessly with states where government interference is noticed. The warning came following stories making the rounds that there was pressure from the Delta States Sports Commission on the top hierarchy of the NFF, especially the chairman of chairmen, Ibrahim Gusau to circumvent the football statutes by allowing the DSSC conduct the DFA elections on June 9, a day after the Super Eagles versus Zimbabwe friendly in Asaba. The Guardian gathered that Ibrahim Gusau, who represented the NFF President, Amaju Pinnick, in the Kano FA elections, stated unequivocally that state football elections must be conducted according to NFF statutes, and the state FA’s electoral guidelines. A source at the NFF told The Guardian yesterday that same scenario played out in the Kaduna State FA elections, as well as the polls into Ebonyi State football Association. “Why will Tony Okowa want to pitch Delta State against the NFF by contravening the statute and guidelines? Delta is the home state of our president, and we expect Okowa to lead by example. We expect the governor to call him to order,” the source stated. Okowa is said to be throwing his weight behind one Lucky Sunday to be the chairman of the State FA in the June 9 elections. Efforts to speak with Tony Okowa yesterday were unsuccessful. Meanwhile, former international, Victor Ikpeba is said to have reached an agreement with Edema Fuludu and has now settled for the position of vice chairman ahead of the June 13 FA election.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .