 Malam Nasir El-Rufai  The Christian body said the bill was a breach of the fundamental rights of Christians in the state, and was being studied for immediate legal action in the court. The state CAN Chairman, Reverend John Joseph Hayab, who disclosed this, yesterday, said: “As the state chairman of CAN, I or any official was not invited for any preliminary hearing by the Assembly on the bill that the House hurriedly signed into law before it was resolved. And most members of the Interfaith Council, which they claimed would regulate activities of Churches and Mosques in the state, don’t understand what Christianity is, let alone regulate our religion. “What is the essence of Christianity, if we cannot evangelise, both privately and publicly? The law cannot work. We will not accept it. I was in America, when news of the endorsement was announced. Now that I am back, we are going to challenge the unlawful bill that the people of Kaduna rejected. “And for the sake of religious harmony, Kaduna government should avoid anything that will disrupt peace in the state. We have had enough controversies and issues of insecurity. Government should not overheat the polity again.”
MEANWHILE, as the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) Presidential election draws closer, Rev. Caleb Ahima, an aspirant, has said the incumbent President must go, having failed Christians in his dismal and visionless leadership. Ahima, who made the assertion, yesterday, in Jos said: “Rev. Supo Ayokunle, the incumbent CAN President had nothing to show for the period he spent in office, piloting the association’s affairs.” Ahima will challenge the incumbent CAN President for the leadership during an election scheduled to hold at the Ecumenical Centre, Abuja on June 17 and 18. He said his vision was to unite all Christians and promote peaceful coexistence in the country. The aspirant accused the incumbent of not carrying his cabinet and Nigerian Christians along in his administration. He said: “A nation is more or less a system, which is at the mercy of the values driving it. Therefore, the vibrancy of the Christian missions/missionaries and activities upon which the nation depends for direction is vital. Leadership is making things happen. We have only Nigeria as our nation, and we must together defend, preserve and nurture her for our good…”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .