 (FILES) A file photo taken on September 10, 2006 shows the AC Milan’ logo before their Serie A football match AC Milan vs Lazio, in Milan. – AC Milan, qualified for the Europa League, has been excluded from European competitions for the 2019/2020 season for non-compliance with the rules of financial fair play, announced the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) on June 28, 2019, in Lausanne. The club, fifth in the Italian league, was qualified for the group phase of the Europa League (C3). He was pinned in April for failing to meet the financial balance required by UEFA over the past three years. (Photo by PACO SERINELLI / AFP)  European football’s governing body UEFA had accused the club of violating financial fair play (FFP) regulations over the past three seasons and the Court of Arbitration for Sport ruled in their favour. “AC Milan is excluded from participating in UEFA club competitions of the sporting season 2019/2020 as a consequence of the breach of its FFP break-even obligations” for the past three seasons, the court ruled. UEFA initially found the Italian giants, who had qualified for the Europa League next season, guilty in June last year of violating financial rules which broadly limit club expenditure to club income in any given year. However, CAS referred the matter back to UEFA judging that an European ban was disproportionate. Ultimately UEFA action against the club was suspended pending the outcome of arbitration, resulting in Friday’s decision following the agreement between UEFA, the club and CAS. The announcement follows the club’s adoption of spending curbs in recent months designed to return its finances to a better state and which saw the departure of coach Gennaro Gattuso. The Serie A giants, who missed out on a Champions League spot by one point to city rivals Inter, are one of several clubs, including Paris Saint-Germain and Manchester City, to have been investigated for breaching UEFA’s rules, whereby clubs cannot spend more than they generate by their own means. AC Milan have fallen foul of UEFA’s financial rules since they spent 200 million euros ($225 million) on transfers in the summer of 2017. The club insists however that their finances should improve under American hedge fund Elliott Management Corporation, who took control last summer when former Chinese owner Li Yonghong defaulted on the loan he had taken to buy the club in 2017 from former Italian prime minister Silvio Berlusconi. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .