 [FILE PHOTO] PDP chief, Uche Secondus<br />Photo: Twitter/UcheSecondus  He was speaking on Buhari’s continued hostile behaviour on the judiciary as exemplified in his “unwarranted and unprovoked attacks on the former Chief Justice Walter Onnoghen.” Secondus noted that the president’s aversion to the judiciary was becoming very apparent, dangerous and antithetical to democratic norms. “Buhari has continued to bemoan his past with the judiciary by displaying unconcealed anger and unforgiving desire to take a pound of flesh on them,” Secondus noted. The PDP chairman remarked that the motive behind the president’s endless attacks on the judiciary, especially last Tuesday’s narration of his so-called ordeal with the courts, was strategically designed to cow them into submission to his undemocratic desires. A statement from his media office yesterday noted that even among Buhari’s audience, where he was lampooning the judiciary, were persons whose questionable source of wealth is not unknown, “yet the president pretends not to be aware because it favours his political interest.” The PDP boss charged members of the judiciary to shun intimidation, but to insist on delivering justice. Meanwhile, PDP has berated the chairman of theIndependent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, for claiming that the commission was the most improved service institution in the country. The national publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, stated yesterday that INEC, in reality, had become the most debased, degraded and corrupted institution, “particularly with the rigging of the 2019 presidential election”. The party said in making such claims “at a time Nigerians and the international community are in huge disappointment over the irregularities, violation of rules, alteration of results and outright rigging that characterised the last elections, Prof. Yakubu has further confirmed that the commission under his watch is decadent and compromised. “It is indeed outrageous that while Nigerians are hurting over the subversion of their mandate, the INEC chairman, who ought to be apologising, is rather insulting their sensibilities with his provocative claims.” According to the major opposition party, Prof. Yakubu cannot claim that INEC under his watch is the most improved service institution when all indices show that it performed far below par in the 2019 elections. “How can anyone in good conscience make such spurious claim when the massive irregularities that defaced the 2019 elections is responsible for the unprecedented 766 election petitions across the country as against 297 filed in the 2015 elections? “It is indeed an unpardonable affront on the sensibilities of Nigerians for Prof. Yakubu to claim that his INEC that has become notorious for compromised voters’ register, missing ballot papers, alteration of results and inconclusive elections is the most improved service institution in the country.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .