 PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan  The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday said Vice President Yemi Osinbajo’s dismissal of kidnappings in the country has confirmed that the All Progressives Congress (APC) administration is insensitive to the sufferings of Nigerians.A statement issued by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, it argued that by attempting to trivialise kidnapping, Osinbajo clearly demonstrates that the APC-led government was not connected to the people, but only pretends towards them during electioneering. “In dismissing the security problem, the Vice President is simply telling victims of kidnapping that as far as the APC and its administration are concerned, they have not suffered enough.“Such anti-people disposition, as being witnessed under the APC, can only come from an uncaring and insensitive administration that does not have the mandate of the people. “It is, therefore, unfortunate that instead of being remorseful and seeking solutions, Osinbajo is rather playing on the sensibility of Nigerians by attempting to justify his comment, which has been widely condemned by citizens from all walks of life,” the statement reads. The party noted that Osinbajo has only succeeded in showcasing President Muhammadu Buhari’s incompetence and failure in securing the country, adding: “He has also ridiculed his office in the eye of the international community, who is well aware of the gravity of kidnapping and other security challenges confronting Nigeria.” Meanwhile, the Yoruba Youth Vanguard has lampooned an Afenifere faction for deliberately trying to mislead Nigerians by quoting Vice President Yemi Osinbajo out of context.It said at a media briefing in Abeokuta yesterday that the Afenifere group does not represent the interest of the entire Yoruba race, but of some old men who are after their own personal gains. Leader of the group, Akomolafe Kolawole, explained that if truly Afenifere represented Yoruba interest, they would not take the lead in misleading Nigerians on Osinbajo’s comments, who he described as a true Omoluabi. He said, “Afenifere as we know it today, especially Yinka Odumakin do not represent Yoruba interest in anyway. The group only speaks for their stomachs and pockets, they have since lost relevance and anything they say or do should be disregarded. Kolawole explained that the Afenifere leaders are only motivated by corruption and since the Vice President is an honest person, they are trying hard to tarnish his image.“Students of history will agree that Afenifere has been working tirelessly to tarnish Osinbajo’s image because he is bigger and better than all of them collectively,” he added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .