 Abuja  Now in its sixth year, the festival is expanding its geographic footprint by heading to the nation’s capital, Abuja to give food and drink lovers the golden opportunity to revel and relish the finest foods and drinks possible. Founded in 2015 by the duo of Folayemi Agusto and Nosa Oyegun, the festival is a one of a kind annual social event which connects tens of thousands of food lovers, chefs, cooks, mixologists, local and international press to an amazing lifestyle experience. Speaking to The Guardian about the upcoming festival, co-founder and festival director, Folayemi Agusto said, “The first edition of EatDrinkAbuja will bring together an eclectic and carefully curated selection of Abuja’s talented food and drink vendors. Our festivals are all about promoting local talent in the culinary arts in a dynamic way. We are excited about bringing the festival to the nation’s capital and eagerly anticipate a great day. We hope to bring hidden gems and new culinary experiences from all over Abuja to Harrow Park for a massive day of feasting.” For the second time in a row, Sterling Bank would be sponsoring EDF. Speaking, Head, Public Relations, Sterling bank, Adeola Adejokun, said their support for EDF is in line with its commitment to support SMEs across the country. “Beyond giving Abuja residents an opportunity to experience a curation of the best food and drinks, EatDrinkAbuja offers small and medium businesses within the region an opportunity to expand their customer base and scale their businesses. We are eager to witness the partnerships that would be borne from the festival as has been the case with Lagos and we are excited to be part of their success story.” The Abuja edition is also supported by Maggi, who will play host to a series of culinary attractions on that day, including live cooking demonstrations, cooking challenges and so on. A technology driven event, the festival will have a reloadable wristband system powered by RFID technology, which would enable attendees complete payments seamlessly. This innovative payment system, which has been previously used in Lagos to mitigate transaction failure, would allow guests, on arrival or online before the event, purchase a wristband and load it with funds to make payments at the event. Vendors then scan the guest’s wristband to collect payment. Taking place at Harrow Park, Wuse 2, Abuja, attendees are advised to hurry to the festival’s website for more information, registration, getting a wristband and seeing how it works.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .