 [FILES] Fayemi  He said that what the country needed now were concerted efforts by stakeholders to combat the scourge of kidnappings, insurgency and banditry pummeling the country rather than reducing it to a mere political tool. Fayemi, who spoke in Ado-Ekiti on Wednesday while declaring open the federal and state security administrators’ meeting, represented by his deputy, Chief Bisi Egbeyemi, described the meeting as a well thought-out security strategy that will help the nation to overcome its challenges in this sector. The governor said that a collaborative approach by all sectors of the Nigerian population and the co-operation of all security agencies, traditional rulers, community and religious leaders is urgently needed to successfully tackle and overcome security challenges in the country. “Ekiti State has been relatively peaceful since its creation in spite of the initial hitches with investments and development springing up across the 16 local councils. “This meeting will serve as a platform to proffer solutions to kidnappings, killings, insurgency and insecurity issues like   assassination and herdsmen-farmers’ problem,” he said. Meanwhile, in a related vein, a Third Republic Senate President, Senator Ameh Ebute, has urged the United Kingdom (UK) Parliament to support Nigeria with modern arms and technology weapons of warfare to enable it combat insecurity. Ebute, who made the plea in a letter addressed to Rt. Hon. Mrs. Kemi Badenoch, a Member of Parliament (MP) representing Saffron Walden Constituency yesterday, said with the support of the UK, the Boko Haram insurgency would be completely defeated. “I am delighted to have the privilege to write to UK Members of Parliament (MP) through you. Accept the fondest greetings from me and other Nigerians. “My motivation of writing the House of Commons through you is my conviction that our lamentations would receive a wider attention in the UK Parliament in recognition of your unique position as Vice Chairman, Conservative Party For Candidates. It is also, spurred by your crystal interest and likewise, that the entire British Parliament would assist Nigeria overcome the besieging insecurity challenges in the country. “I believe the facts on the disgusting security challenges assailing Nigeria are already known to all. But let me briefly recount that insurgencies and insurrections appear to have become intractable security problems in Nigeria,” he said, among others. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .