 Donald Trump, Jr., arrives to testify before the US Senate Select Committee on Intelligence on Capitol Hill in Washington, DC, June 12, 2019. – President Donald Trump’s eldest son is testifying Wednesday behind closed doors to a Republican-led Senate committee investigating Russia election meddling. The appearance by Donald Trump Jr before the Senate Intelligence Committee follows a dispute that made headlines last month when the president expressed surprise that his son was being hauled before Congress for a second time as part of the panel’s probe. (Photo by SAUL LOEB / AFP)  The 41-year-old will testify behind a closed door for up to four hours before members of the Senate Intelligence Committee as part of the Republican-led panel’s two-year investigation of Russia’s interference in the 2016 US presidential election. Trump Jr, who helms the Trump Organization collection of businesses that was run for decades by his real estate billionaire father, faced a barrage of questions as he strode into the hearing room, including whether he was going to alter his testimony from two years ago. “No,” he said quickly, before adding: “Nothing to correct.” Trump Jr will undoubtedly face scrutiny for his role in arranging a Trump Tower meeting in June 2016 that included a Russian lawyer offering dirt on Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton. “If it’s what you say I love it,” Trump Jr had written in response to a 2016 email offering the information in a meeting, according to a transcript released last year by the Senate Judiciary Committee, which was conducting a parallel investigation. Some Democrats suspect he may have lied about what he and his father knew about the now-infamous meeting, as well as other connections between the Trump campaign and Russia. Trump Jr had also appeared before the Senate Intelligence Committee, and that panel’s Republican chairman, Senator Richard Burr, faced criticism from within his party for calling Trump Jr to appear a second time, due to apparent discrepancies between his original 2017 testimony and that of other witnesses. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .