Committed to reducing the impact of global warming especially on the environment, Bayero University, Kano is offering 3,000 free trees seeds to its immediate and external community. The initiative, according to the deputy vice-chancellor (academic) of the university, Professor Adamu Idris Tanko was parts of measures reduce air pollution in the ancient city of Kano. The DVC academic spoke yesterday at the occasion marking 2019 World Environment Day, organised by the university’s faculty of earth and environmental management in collaboration with  Baraka on Environment (BE), Environmental Management Association of Nigeria (EMAN) and Nigerian Environmental Society (NES) held at BUK. Professor Tanko who regretted the growing damage of global warming on climax change and atmospheric conditions as well as food security; posited that embarking on a massive tree planting potent capacity to suck pollutants in the warming. “This year, the target is to beat air pollution which means, reducing the amount of emission in the air or removing the pollutants from air. “But since we in Africa still lack the level of technological advancement and capacity to remove pollutants from air, we resort to ecological solution of planting trees. Tree has the chemical property to suck pollutants from air. “And this, to a large extent will reduce air pollution and that is why Bayero university is leading the tree planting mission by distribution seedlings to lecturers, students, market women, and every other segment of the society to reduce unwanted air pollution in Kano “. Professor Tanko explained. One of the convener and environmental activist, Baraka Bashir tasked concern authority on urgent need to check chemical emission by industries in Kano. While reminding on the devastating danger of the industrial pollution on human health, Baraka called for sanction on indiscriminating dispose of plastic and organic waste to reduce the environmental abuse. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .