 APC leader, Adams Oshiomhole  Addressing reporters yesterday in Abuja, Shittu described Oshiomhole’s style of leadership as “dictatorial”, urging his removal from office to “save the party from going into extinction.” He added: “He is one person who is a dictator and wants to dominate his environment. Someone who doesn’t want to take advice and one person who does not seek advice. “Having failed, he should honourably resign to avert the party from humiliation in the 2023 general elections when there will be no Buhari factor to drive it. “To contest any position in Nigeria, there is nowhere it is stipulated in the constitution that you must have an NYSC discharge certificate. “And to tell you the mischief our party’s national chairman and his cohort did, Dapo Abiodun, now Governor of Ogun State never served; the immediate past Oyo governor, (Abiola) Ajimobi, did not also serve and I can mention a whole lot of others. “It is the same Oshiomhole who denied me the opportunity to contest the party primary that cleared these other people to contest. Ajimobi for Senate and Abiodun for governorship. This double standard will certainly not be allowed by God.” However, the party’s Reconciliation, Peace, Strengthening and Repositioning Committee has pledged to pacify all aggrieved members in the South East. Chairman of the committee, Dr. Emeka Wogu, stated this yesterday after the inaugural sitting of the 13-member panel in Enugu. He stated that the zonal leadership of the party gave the team the mandate to make peace with a view to strengthening the political grouping in the region, taking into consideration that certain members felt so dissatisfied with the congresses, primaries and the main elections. In the meantime, chairman of the Edo State chapter of the ruling party, Anselm Ojezua, has deplored the pressure by politicians on Governor Godwin Obaseki to reportedly share state funds. Addressing reporters in Benin City, he stated that it was unfortunate to “see politicians (party leaders) come out openly to complain about money and seek reward for political supremacy.” Ojezua affirmed that the APC was intact amid opposition to the governor over his refusal to allegedly share funds meant for the development of the state. He spoke after a closed-door meeting between leaders of the party and the governor. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .