 Sanwo-Olu  While Gbadamosi said he does not envy the governor over the delay because of certain interests he must put into consideration, PDP said it is imperative of Sanwo-Olu to explain why it has taken him so long to inaugurate a cabinet for the state.Spokesman of PDP, Mr. Taofik Gani, said Sanwo-Olu is not coordinated hence the apparent stagnation in the governance of the state coupled with alleged cases of funds embezzlement, mismanagement, and misappropriation. PDP further claimed that citizens of Lagos are now suffering Sanwo-Olu’s uncoordinated governance as observed in increased traffic chaos ad fees to be charged offenders, increased insecurity, and abandoned and decaying infrastructure.“This is unpardonable and a result of the aberration adopted by a governor without a cabinet, thus acting as sole administrator,” Gani said. He said the unwarranted delay is a further vindication that Sanwo-Olu was hurriedly brought on to be governor for which he was not prepared, noting, “Governance in Lagos has become guerilla-styled and source of disillusion.” The party, however, urged the State House of Assembly to summon the governor to appear before it, noting that lawmakers should also endeavor to monitor the finances in the state’s ministries and parastatals.Also, Gbadamosi said he was not surprised over the delay because Sanwo-Olu did not put himself forward in the first instance but was pushed by somebody to contest. According to him, “There are stakeholders’ interests he must consider before making his choice. I don’t particularly envy him but I am, however, encouraged that he has made some appointments just as I am impressed by a few of his activities and I want to assure the citizens that hopefully by June 29 when he would be exactly a month in office, he must have formed his cabinet.” However, Deputy Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mr. Gboyega Akosile, lashed at PDP, saying it is apparently bereft of something better to do, therefore feigning impatience. He said his boss would appoint highly qualified and competent personalities into the cabinet. He stressed: “There is the need to remind PDP that the 1999 Constitution is very clear about the issue of cabinet. There is nowhere in the constitution where a time frame is stipulated for a governor on the composition of cabinet. The PDP needs to also be reminded that the governor had said it countless times during the electioneering that he would put in place a high quality cabinet composed of tested men and women who will join him to drive his vision of delivering a greater Lagos to all the citizens of the state.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .