Nollywood actress and former president of the Actors Guild of Nigeria, Ibinabo Fiberesima in a lengthy post has defended fellow actress, 22-year-old Regina Daniels who has been under blast since getting married to 59-year-old Ned Nwoko. Daniels and Nwoko’s marriage has been the subject of widespread debate with many slamming the young actress for allegedly marrying her older partner because of his money. In defense of Daniels, Fiberesima slammed Nigerians for being hypocrites and also called them out for their unusual interest in the said marriage. While defending Daniels as a hardworking young woman who has achieved celebrity status for herself, Fiberesima also wonders why a young adult girl’s marriage to a man she loves and has pledged to spend her life with has suddenly become a potent topic of national discourse. Also broaching Shan George’s recent call out of Nwoko as a ‘dirty and disgusting’ for taking Daniels as a fifth wife. George finally stated that Daniels is an established woman and would not have been coerced into anything against her will. Her post reads, “I’ve listened to various comments, read the opinions, sometimes laced with vitriol and I’ve come to the conclusion that majority of Nigerians ascribe to themselves this pristine and Olympian moral standing which they believe gives them a divine right to judge others and poke their nose into what ordinarily is none of their business even when stinking skeletons are crying for air in their own wardrobes. How else can one explain the fact that a young adult girl’s marriage to a man she loves and has pledged to spend her life with has suddenly become a potent topic of national discourse. The angst people throw concerning this issue would make one believe Prince Ned Nwoko a gentleman in his own right kidnapped, defiled and further coerced ‘an underage’ Regina Daniels into a sham of a union. I must say along the line I found most deplorable and downright disappointing the comment of my sister and friend Shan George. Though she deleted it (of course she forgot the Internet and its complexities) I found her comment rude and frankly ill thought. A person of her stand who should know better going ahead on social media to call out Prince Ned as ‘disgusting and shameless’ for marrying a ‘child’ and even questioning what he’s done for his people is vindictive and vile. This is the same Prince Ned Munir Nwoko who has been a humanitarian philanthropist par excellence, a father to so many and is a man who has given his life to helping complete strangers all over the country, done so much for his community and Nigeria at large and is still doing so much in every sphere. Shan dear. No. You no try. He deserves an apology from you. Please, these are questions and facts dearest Shan and our morally upright judges are seemingly oblivious to. Regina has worked extremely hard since childhood to attain her celebrity status and clout and doesn’t need a man to keep her comfortable or in the limelight. She met with Ned, saw something she loved about him and ‘agreed’ to marry him when he ‘proposed’ to her. She is not a side chic but a fully married woman. Once married, the union officially became nobody’s business. She will not be the first in this scenario and will not be the last.”