 Edo Assembly. Photo/facebook/edostatehouseofassembly  Most of those who predicted the unfolding crisis of confidence between the incumbent governor and his predecessor express the belief that nothing succeeds like an idea whose time has come, explaining that Governor Obaseki’s leadership acumen and developmental master plan have become sources of envy for the APC national chairman and his acolytes.
 
But watchers of Edo politics say the ongoing squabble is certainly not a good time for political actors in the state chapter of APC to ruffle feathers, particularly as the members of the state House of Assembly stand divided. In spite of their initial efforts to keep their differences out of public knowledge, former governor Oshiomhole and his successor, Obaseki, have thrown caution to the win and are ready to wash their dirty linen in the public if only for the court of popular opinion to give verdict.
 
Most politicians have also joined the fray as they openly take sides to fight for and or against the duo, thus defeating Governor Obaseki’s initial attempts at denying the simmering rift. Party chieftains siding Obaseki against Oshiomhole accuse the APC national chairman of hypocrisy, alleging that he failed to practise what he preached by playing the very same godfather role he fought against as labour leader and governor.
 
These APC party stalwarts marvel at the disingenuous role being played by forces loyal to Oshiomhole, describing it as the highest level of godfatherism. While condemning Oshiomhole’s current shameful role, a party chieftain in the state, Mr. Charles Idahosa, urged the national chairman to resign. Idahosa, who is also a former Political Adviser to Oshiomhole, accused his former principal of “desecrating the temple of democracy by sponsoring anti-democratic practices.”
  
It is intriguing that the former Oshiomhole’s aide could not restrain himself in attacking his former boss. But Idahosa’s outburst shows the level of animus against the meddlesome distraction from the APC national chairman, especially he is acknowledged as an outspoken and dogged politician who has grassroots presence and clout. Apart from being in prominent political circles for a period spanning several decades, culminating in his visible presence in government since the return to civil rule in 1999, it would be recalled that Idahosa featured eminently in Chief Lucky Igbinedion’s administration in the state.  For instance, the APC secretary for Uhunwmonde local government council, Osagie Ogieva, called on member-elect representing Uhunmwonde state constituency, Mr. Washington Osifo and other aggrieved members-elect to toe the path of collaboration if the objective is to provide leadership through legislation.  Matters arising
CRITICS of the development in Edo State are divided over Oshiomhole and Obaseki as they have turned the legislative arm of government into a ‘game of chess’, warning the two principal actors to be careful of the consequences the development may likely pose to the state. While some of the critics believe the constitutional provision ought to have been adhered to in the circumstance, others said the governor, who appears to have had the upper hand than his immediate predecessor, Oshiomhole, did not insist on the rule of law.
 
For instance, a former member of the House of Representatives and current Chairman of Yoruba socio-cultural group, Afenifere Renewal Group (ARG), Mr. Wale Oshun, said what took place in Edo State House of Assembly was the height of impunity that must be condemned in totality. Although, Oshun agreed that the election of Speaker and Deputy Speaker must be done at the plenary, where the lawmakers are expected to form a quorum, the idea that minority would have to decide for the majority is undemocratic. He said: “Whosoever is supporting what happened in Edo State Assembly is backing arrant nonsense. This also indicated that Nigeria does not have democracy yet, but a civil rule.”
 
He also admonished governors that it is now time for them to move away from the mentality of militarising our democracy through unconstitutional proclamation. 
 
Former president of Igbo Think Tank group, Goody Uwazurike, disagreed with Oshun, saying there was nothing anybody could do to reverse what happened in Edo State House of Assembly.
 
According to him, “As far as the lawmakers formed the constitutional required 1/3 majority and the plenary was proclaimed through a letter read on behalf of the governor by the House Clerk to declare the Assembly open it settled the matter, noting, “Any other thing done outside the plenary was nullity.”
 
Citing part 2 and section 94 of the 1999 Constitution, Uwazurike said the lawmakers present at the plenary in Edo had the backing of law, adding that for the incumbent speakers and their deputies to be removed, they need 2/3 majority to achieve this.
 
However, a former member of House of Representatives, Mr. Lanre Odubote, disagreed with Uwazurike’s view, saying, it is important for all Nigerians to condemn the development for the sake of preserving Nigeria’s democracy.
 
He queried: “Why were the majority lawmakers-elect not at the plenary if they were not locked out or prevented by superior forces? This is a complete state of anarchy and it ridicules our democracy.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .