 New Residential apartments  at Lekki car parks  They stressed that the call became necessary because of the importance of master plan to Lagos, which was only second to Munich to have electricity in the whole world. Regretting the culture of silence trailing the abuse of Lekki master plan and other known estates in the state, they said, master plan is at the root of traffic and infrastructural challenges in the state. Speaking on behalf of the residents, concerned investor and property owner, Mr. James Anifowose, narrated how the large expanse of land at Olubunmi Owa Street, Off   Admiralty Way, Lekki Phase 1, marked for a police station and central car park for the entire Central Business District was tampered with because of pecuniary gains by officials of government. He expressed worries on how Lagos State Government can attract foreign investors, when they cannot be trusted after being tricked to buy into a master plan that will be changed. Planning system, they said, are set rules that must be kept and will amount to a loss of integrity and loss of trust   if we cannot   organise as a nation. Government must show responsibility and stop pretending to enforce laws and exhibit gangsterism. “People invest in Lekki because they thought they have mater plan, after 20 years, you are now messing it up. The historic cities of the world are still preserving their master plans, “It is a social problem and People in government does not understand the dynamics of planning, it is in the deep circle of crisis.“The government is not showing the citizens any sense of being yet it works to extract compliance.What has Lagos state government deliver to its citizens in 100 years?   Resident through pubic effort build the road, yet you are changing the master plan without their inputs”, they said. The residents said since master plans are for future, its abuse affects the future of Lagos, stressing that   the greed of government officials and lack of trust will not attract foreign investors because government   cannot be trusted to obey its own agreement. “In the Lekki Master plan, the minimum requirement for the business district was 10 floors with British chambers of commerce   noted as the tallest building at that time but that is no longer the case now.“The New Town development Authority (NITDA) has lost its grip in the scheme as   a any building   above four-floors must now go to the governor for approval.People, the residents said, are tricked to buy into a master plan only for it to be basterdised without their input because greed and impunity. They recalled in the Central Business District where a large portion of land was marked for car park for the entire area and police station but was now converted to a residential apartment by the immediate past administration leaving businesses that have built on the master plan stranded without car parks. Anifowose said former governor, Babatunde Fashola has permission for the development of the car park and police station in the district only for the immediate past governor to cancel it and allocate the large expanse for the development of residential apartments and other uses.According to him, in other parts of the world, the master plan are not tampered, hence the protection of historic building in those cities. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .