 All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) National Chairman Victor Oye  The convention was however not attended by the wife of the late Chief Ikemba Nnewi, Mrs. Bianca Ojukwu and Senator Victor Umeh. The event, which was adjudged peaceful and transparent, as members of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party and BOT were elected by voice vote, held yesterday at the Women Development Center, Awka, Anambra State. In his address, Obiano expressed joy on the turnout of members for the congress, describing it as very impressive, just as he commended all those elected at the ward and state congresses held on May 19 and May 23 across the states, respectively. He equally thanked the secretary of the congress, Chief Ifeatu Onejeme, for doing a good job and also the representatives of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) who turned up to witness the event. He expressed satisfaction that the congress was rancor free, tasking the new NWC and BOT members to ensure that they give in their best for APGA to grow. “Let us be like the apostles of Jesus Christ, spreading the gospel of ‘Onye Aghana Nwanne Ya’. If all hands are on deck, APGA will advance into a great party and even overtake other parties,” he noted. In his speech, Oye, who was returned for a second term as national chairman, assured that the NWC would redouble their efforts in transforming the party to next level, adding: “The confidence reposed on us would not be abused.” He urged party members to work as one body, noting that the party’s motto, ‘Be your Brother’s Keeper’, should always be put into action. He also commended everyone that contributed his quota towards making the congress a success. He particularly thanked Obiano for taking the pains to make the event a reality, adding: “Obiano has contributed greatly to the development of Anambra State, especially at the grassroots level where the masses have felt governance politically, socially and economically.”
 
He urged the BOT chairman to be focused and ignore those he called detractors who were bent on soiling the image of APGA. Oye assured that every kobo realised from purchase of forms during the party primaries amounting to N1.3 billion was intact and would be accounted for. He called on aggrieved members of the party to put the past behind them and team up with the NWC and BOT to re-build the party. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .