Fulani Herdsmen. PHOTO: Issouf Sanogo (AFP/File) • Woman rescued after apartment was set ablaze by suspected kidnapers 
A 25-year-old woman, Mrs. Olawumi Adeleye and her stepson, Destiny Paul, aged 14, were kidnapped by unknown gunmen at Osi community, along Akure Airport road in Akure North Local Government Area of Ondo State. The victims were said to be coming back from church on Sunday evening at about 5:30p.m. at Osi, which is less than two kilometres to Akure Airport. The Iresi of Osi, Oba David Olajide, who confirmed the incident, alleged that the two victims were abducted by suspected Fulani herdsmen on their way from the church. “It happened along Oso-Owo Road very close to Akure airport,” Oba Olajide said. The monarch disclosed that the incident had been reported to the police for action, while a family source added that said the kidnappers had contacted the husband of the woman to demand N10 million ransom. The herdsmen, it was gathered, blocked the road with cows, forcing the victims, who were in a Lexus car to stop. They were thereafter abducted and taken to an unknown destination by the bandits. A source who pleaded anonymity said: “Mrs. Adeleye was coming from the church with her boy suddenly the Fulani herdsmen put scores of their cows on the road. As the woman was trying to make a U-turn, to escape from the scene, they attacked her and damaged her car and later took her away with the boy.” Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) in the state, Mr. Femi Joseph, noted that the police had sprung into action to secure the release of the victims and arrest the culprits. In another development, Mrs. Tricia Adeyemi, aged 34, a business woman at Odojomu town of Ondo State escaped from the snare of her attackers, suspected to be kidnappers. The kidnappers numbering three who came masked, forcefully gained entrance to her house at 10B Olorunsogo Street, Odojomu, at about 7:00p.m. last week Wednesday demanding to see her husband, who was not at home at the time. Adeyemi narrated that she was beaten and tied with rope in her bedroom apartment, which was set ablaze, before they fled while shouting for help. “I was rescued by our neighbours before the arrival of the fire brigade,” she said. She enjoined the Ondo State police command to intensify efforts at combating insecurity in the state. Meanwhile, the state governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, on Sunday, disclosed that his security personnel were targeted when his convoy encountered a gang of kidnappers, boasting that he cannot be whisked away by the criminals. Akeredolu, who did not mention the exact date of the incident, said the suspects ran into the bush when the orderly attached to him opened fire. The governor, however, declared that he and his colleagues were working towards ending the “siege to the southwest.” According to him, “I have encountered them (kidnappers) before so security issue is not limited to the masses alone. My convoy was targeted but my security people shot into the air to scare them away. They fled into the bush on Akure-Ibadan road.” We, as governors, will do something about the issue. We are discussing with the federal government. It is real that travellers are not safe on the road. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .