As more speakers keep emerging across states of the federation, representative of Yakurr 2 Constituency, Eteng Williams has been elected Speaker, Cross River State House of Assembly, while Joseph Bassey (Calabar South 2) was reelected Deputy Speaker. Williams and Bassey, both third term members were elected through consensus of the ninth Assembly after representatives of Ogoja, Peter Odey and Boki 2, Hillary Bisong nominated them. Clerk of the House, Bassey Ekpeyong who read Governor Ben Ayade’s speech, congratulated the 25 members who emerged under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).He tasked the members to maintain a healthy relationship with other arms of government for greater development of the state. Ayade said, “I congratulate all of you for emerging as members of the House. There is need to maintain healthy relationship with other arms of government for the progress of Cross River State.” Responding, Williams commended members for electing him Speaker and assured that the House would work in synergy with other arms of government to maintain peace and stability in the state. Odey emerged House Leader, while Fredrick Osim (Ikom 1) was elected Deputy Leader. Besides, Aminu Mohammed Achida (Wurno Constituency) has been elected Speaker of the Sokoto State House of Assembly. He scored 16 votes to emerge winner as against 13 votes scored by his rival, Abdullahi Sidi (Gwadabawa South Constituency), while Abubakar Magaji (PDP Bodinga North Constituency) was reelected Deputy Speaker. He scored 17 votes to defeat his opponent, Isah Hasiru (Kebbe Constituency) who polled 12 votes. Legal Director of the House, Kabir Mohammed, administered the oath of office on the principal officers. Meanwhile, 34-year old Yakubu Saliu Danladi of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and a first time member representing Ilesha-Gwanara Constituency has emerged Speaker of the 24-member Kwara State House of Assembly. He succeeded PDP’s Ali Ahmad. He was nominated by Saheed Popoola of Balogun-Ojomu Constituency in Offa Local Government and seconded by Haliru Danbaba. In his acceptance speech, Danladi said he offered himself for service of the House and the state. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .