 [FILES] Cultural relation has been further enhanced with the establishment of Korean Cultural Centre in Abuja  Since then, the centre has remained committed towards promoting cultural ties between the two countries, by partnering government agencies and private individuals to package cultural activities particularly in areas of literature, music, dance and indigenous sports. Korea has also played host to several Nigerians through cultural exchange programmes. However, the visit of a three-man Korean National Assembly delegation to Nigeria raised hopes for new frontiers in the cultural relationships between both countries. Passionate about Nigerian cultural performances, the lawmakers revealed a new level of cultural exchange. Leader of the delegation and Deputy Speaker, Republic of Korea, Ju-young Lee, who spoke on behalf of the group, stated that the new relationship would witness an increase in cultural activities for each year. He assured that Nigerian traditional dances would soon be aired in Korean media for its public while Korean drama would in turn, be introduced here. Meanwhile, the delegation equally assured that existing cultural programmes including, the yearly K-Pop dance would be sustained. The Nigerian K-Pop dance competition is one of the programmes organised by the Korean Cultural Centre towards promoting Korean pop music in Nigeria. The national competition holds in July of every year. Other members of the delegation are Jaehyun Baek and Joo Gwangdeok. The visit coincided with the second inauguration of Muhammadu Buhari as Nigeria’s president. Lee hoped that President Buhari would consider visiting the Republic of Korea as a way of strengthening bilateral ties between both countries. He noted that the exchange visit between President Buhari and President Moon Jae-in of the Republic of Korea would enhance mutual cooperation. According to him, such visit was one of the issues raised by the delegation with the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo during their visit to the Presidential Villa. “When I get back to Korea, I will suggest to President Moon to visit Nigeria. I also want Nigerian government to advise President Buhari to consider visiting Korea. “Partnership between Nigeria and Korea will be the foundation for economic development between the Republic of Korea and the African continent,” Lee stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .