 Burundi’s forward Cedric Amissi (L) is marked by Nigeria’s defender Abdullahi Shehu during the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (CAN) football match between Nigeria and Burundi at Alexandria Stadium on June 22, 2019. (Photo by Giuseppe CACACE / AFP)  Abdullahi was taken off in the first half with what is suspected to be a calf injury in the game against Burundi and the officials are not sure he would have recovered before the game against the Syli Stars. According to an official, who pleaded anonymity, Abdullahi’s injury is a recurrence of the one that kept him out of actin for so long last season and we thought everything was all right. “But he started feeling uncomfortable against during the game on Saturday. The doctor would decide if he would be ready for the game tomorrow,” he said. The Super Eagles spent Sunday resting and watching other teams’ matches, but they returned to training yesterday under closed doors. Also not fully fit are Jamilu Collins and Samuel Kalu, but Coach Rohr says he has enough personnel for the game against Guinea. The first 15 minutes of today’s training session will be opened to journalists before the doors are locked to allow them concentrate on tactics.
 
Meanwhile, the Super Eagles camp bubbled specially yesterday evening after news came that France–based forward Samuel Kalu had been declared fit to future at the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations after another test in Cairo.
 
Team Administrator, Dayo Enebi Achor told thenff.com that team doctor Ibrahim Gyaran travelled to the Egyptian capital with Kalu to conduct the test alongside a CAF medical officer.
 
“Kalu has been declared fit to play as from now. His featuring in Wednesday’s match against Guinea however depends on if he is picked by the technical crew led by Coach Gernot Rohr,” Achor said from the team’s Helnan Palestine Hotel in Alexandria.
 
The pacy Girondins Bordeaux of France ace, who also performed creditably as a wing back in the AFCON 2019 ticket –winning 1-1 draw with South Africa in Johannesburg in November 2018, had fallen while about to take a corner kick at training in Alexandria on Friday evening. He was quickly stabilised but taken to hospital for a round of tests, where he was said to be dehydrated and needed to take more fluids.
 
The scare knocked him out of reckoning for selection for Saturday’s 1-0 defeat of Burundi in Nigeria’s first match of the 2019 AFCON at the Alexandria Stadium.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .