The first batch of Kano pilgrims intending to perform 2019 Hajj are scheduled to depart Nigeria for Saudi Arabia Wednesday 10th July 2019. Executive secretary, Kano state Pilgrims Welfare Board, Alhaji Mohammad Abba Danbatta revealed this Monday while briefing journalists on level of preparation for this year’s exercise. Abba explained that the National Hajj Commission has selected Kano contingents for early departure considering the board’s preparation which he said has reached 75 per cent completion. The board also announced the reduction of N51,754 Hajj fare for the 2019 exercise. The executive secretary posited that the board has since commenced sensitization across the 44 local government areas to keep intending pilgrims abreast with the rudiment of Hajj and diplomatic dues at the holy. He added that inoculation of pilgrims commenced Saturday. The board announced the reduction of N51,754 hajj fare for the 2019 exercise. Alhaji Abba stressed that in compliance with NAHCON’s directive, the board has instituted five members committee to refund N51,754 to pilgrims who have already completed the earlier announced fare of N1,535,754. He said the hajj commission has equally extended registration of intending pilgrims to 10th July 2019, adding that interested persons have the privilege to make payment against the earlier deadline. NAHCON recently announced the downward reviewed of hajj fare 620 Saudi Riyals, which is equivalent to 165 US Dollars, therefore directed all States Pilgrims Welfare Boards, the FCT, and the Armed Forces to immediately announce the review and commence refunds to pilgrims who have completed their fares before the review. The downward review, according to NAHCON was due to re-classification of land transportation routes and reduction of the rates on the portal of the Saudi Ministry of Hajj and Umrah on transportation routes, scheduled for Nigeria pilgrims for 2019 exercise. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .