On Friday the 28th of June 2019, hundreds will convene at The Podium, Lekki for CultivARTe, a one-day conference with the aim of creating engines for growth and laying pipelines necessary for the growth of human capital in Africa. Outlining the paths of success in their respective industries on that day are: Founder of ARTx Lagos, Tokini Peterside as the Keynote Speaker, and a panel of industry leaders which include Abayomi Awobokun, CEO Enyo Retail & Supply, Fareed Arogundade, Founder Workstation, Jameelah Sharrieff-Ayedun, CEO Credit Registry and Lisa Folawiyo, Founder of JewelsByLisa., Adeyemo Shokunbi, Founder and Creative Director of PwDC and Marketing Executive Nwando Ajene. While the interactive sessions will be conducted by Vector, Timini Egbuson, Adaora Mbelu, Afua Osei, Karika Yonreme , Glory Edozien (PhD), Feranmi Ajetomobi, Salem Ibrahim and Tutu Adetunmbi and hosted by Journalist Lamide Akintobi. The CultivARTe Conference 2019 The conference was birthed as a result of the acknowledgement of the fundamental lack of access to resources in Africa that are necessary to catapult any person’s vision into reality. CultivARTe aims to bridge the gap between the tech, culture, art, business, leadership and community spaces in Africa. The conveners of CultivARTe, Amin Ameen and Mofe Ade are already doing incredible work in the lives of innovative, hardworking young entrepreneurs around the globe. With the EverythingNaArt brand, they have successfully trained over 24,000 members of their community with both paid and value-based digital courses making it easy for entrepreneurs and individuals across Africa to make a living that is sustainable, impactful and rewarding. “Our job is to make sure the whole world knows about the awesome individuals in Africa and beyond, what problems they solve and more importantly, the impact they are making in their world,” says Amin Ameen the co-convener of CultivARTe and Founder of EverythingNaArt. “For CultivARTe, our role is to be a catalyst for change. We have identified key individuals that are true engines for growth, changing the landscape and climate of their various disciplines and have convened them for the benefit of our attendees.” Follow @thecultivarte on Instagram and the hashtag #Cultivarte19 to keep up with the conversation.  Guardian Life is a proud media partner of The CultivARTe conference, 2019. 