 Aisha Buhari  Mrs. Buhari, who disclosed her new official title at the presentation of awards to the former and current wives of the 36 state governors held at the Banquet Hall of the Presidential Villa, Abuja, said: “When my husband was elected newly, I personally chose to be called the wife of the President. But I realised that it causes confusion from the state, as to whether the wives of state governors are to be addressed as the first ladies or wives of the governors. “So, forgive me for confusing you from the beginning, but now, I choose to be called the First Lady.”A statement by her Director of Information, Suleiman Haruna, and made available to newsmen yesterday explained that the First Lady presented awards of excellence to the spouses of former governors for their contributions towards uplifting the living standards of women and children in their respective states through their various pet projects, urging them to sustain the tempo. “This event is meant to celebrate the former state First Ladies and welcome those coming to take their places. It is both a mixture of happy and unhappy moment for all of us.“We need to come together to define our common vision leading to planning and implementation of activities towards improving the lives of women and children.
 
“In the last four years many of you have impacted positively in the lives of people in your states and even beyond. You have touched lives, your hands have healed the sick and transformed the faces of sadness into those of smiles. You will be remembered and judged positively by posterity and history. I am happy and proud to have associated with you all.” In her address, the former chairperson of Northern Governors Wives Forum and wife of former governor of Bauchi State Mrs. Hadiza Abubakar, expressed her appreciation to Mrs. Buhari for her leadership and guidance throughout their tenure. Wife of former governor of Imo State and former chairperson of Southern Governors Wives Forum, Mrs. Nkechi Okorocha, said the forum served as a platform for fostering unity among the spouses of southern governors, irrespective of political party affiliations. Mrs. Buhari presented award of excellence to the wives of former governors of Bauchi, Gombe, Imo, Kwara, Lagos, Osun, Nasarawa, Zamfara, Oyo, and Ogun states.Wife of the governor of Niger State, Mrs. Amina Bello, emerged as the new chairperson of Northern Governors Wives Forum, while Mrs. Besty Obaseki of Edo State takes over as the chairperson of Southern Governors Wives Forum. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .