 Chimezuo O. N. Nwankpa.  • Synod expresses gratitude to God for the successful conduct of the 2019 general elections that saw the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari, as President, Federal Republic of Nigeria and Deacon Udom Emmanuel as Governor of Akwa Ibom State. It urges them and other elected officers in the spirit of sportsmanship to be magnanimous in victory, extend olive branches to their opponents and brace up to the demands of effective and service-driven leadership. • Drawing inspiration from the Prelate and the Archbishop’s addresses, Synod upholds the Conference theme, “Obedience to God, better than Sacrifice” (1Sam 15: 22b), as the hallmark of the Christian faith and enjoins Nigerians to be scripture-compliant by exhibiting total obedience to God, adding that any sacrifice done in disobedience is inconsequential, as such only attracts curses and not blessings. • Synod commends the Federal Government on the passage into law of the new Minimum Wage Act for workers, and urges all state Governors, as well as the private sector to comply. • While commending the Federal Government for driving the anti-corruption crusade in the velocity it requires, Synod, however, warns against interferences from any quarters, as this portrays great danger to our polity, and urges Mr. President to approach the war against graft holistically, to douse the suspicion among Nigerians that the crusade is one-sided, targeting certain persons. • In line with her Conference theme, Synod enjoins all Nigerians to conduct themselves in Godly obedience, as this would help checkmate the blatant disregard of court orders, especially by politicians, as this was unacceptable and contrary to the norms of any civilized society. • In the same vein, Synod urges Nigerians to protect the nation’s hard-won democracy, and be guided by the rule of law in doing so, as democracy without recourse to the rule of law is a farce. • After a careful appraisal of the state of the nation, and the resurging spate of cultism in some tertiary institutions in Nigeria, evident in the reported killings recently, Synod calls on government and relevant authorities to pay more than lip service to their anti-terrorism efforts, and rise to engage these menaces squarely and with the urgency they demand. • Synod notes with dismay the sustained persecution of the church, within and outside the country, and urges Christians to remain faithful, irrespective of denomination, to contend the war against the body of Christ. • While commending state governments’ efforts in quelling homegrown terror and promoting peace across the state, Synod appeals to government to look beyond granting amnesty to insurgents and institute entrepreneurial programmes that would help reintegrate them, so as not to have them reconstitute themselves into a nuisance in society.
The Most Rev. Chimezuo Nwankpa, Archbishop of Uyo, Methodist Church Nigeria. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .