Chief Godwill Omodele Sanni was born on April 1, 1954  to the late Prince Saliu Adeniran Sanni of Gbagura Abeokuta and Chief (Mrs.) Christiana Irorere Sanni (nee Aideyan) of Benin City. He died 10 years ago, on June 11, 2009 and the vacuum his death created has been so difficult to fill.Four virtues stood Sanni out: personal integrity, sportsmanship spirit, self-sacrifice and total dedication to service. His service to humanity and mankind was outstanding. The family is still grateful for his labour of love and sacrifice and will continue to celebrate him despite his exit. However, we trust God knows the best and we fully trust in His unfailing love. Due to his father’s  frequent transfer as a Produce Inspection Director of Western Region,  Sanni attended numerous primary schools including Christ Apostolic School, Agege ,Lagos; St Michael’s Catholic School, Mushin, Lagos; Owo Government School, Owo; Olumo Primary  School, Abeokuta and Ogbe Methodist School, Abeokuta
He moved to Comprehensive High School, Aiyetoro, Yewa, Ogun State, where he obtained his West Africa School Certificate and Higher School Certificate from 1966 to 1972. When his father died in 1970, his future and that of his siblings were left in the hands of a struggling  mother and God. He continued with his education when the principal, the late L.A. Sofenwa instructed the school bursar to place him on special debtors list that would pay in arrears, even after leaving the school.He had an opportunity of going to Western Germany in 1974, but his late mother insisted he should to go the University of Ibadan for further studies.  He read chemistry and graduated with B. Sc degree in 1977 from University of Ibadan. While in university, he loved sports and played hockey. He represented Nigeria in the tournaments. After his National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) in the Northern part of Nigeria, he returned to Lagos for his first employment as pupil lecturer Grade II assigned to Eko Boys’ High School, Lagos.He later joined Berger Paints Nigeria Plc. at Technical Service Department , where technical complaints were handled. In 1982, when the country’s economy was threatened by the recession and shortage of raw materials, he was able to substitute local materials for imported materials.
This technical ingenuity earned him an international award in 1982, an award, which was acclaimed all over the world by the corrosion control practitioners. He was later sponsored in various post graduate courses by the company in the following institutions, Intel School of Management, London, Brent Chemicals Training  Iver, London, Institute of Marketing, Maiden Head London where he became a Chartered Marketer. Back home in Nigeria, he acquired more skills when he obtained Post-Graduate Diploma in management and Master’s in Business Administration from the University of Lagos and Delta State University respectively.He was the Chief Executive and Managing Director of the company. A pioneer company in corrosion control practice, especially in metal finishing industries in Nigeria. Sanni belonged to many professional bodies; amongst which were: Chemicals Society of Nigeria, Nigeria Corrosion Association,   Institute of Marketing, London National Association of Corrosion Engineers  and Institute of Chartered  Chemist of Nigeria (ICCON).He was bestowed with the honorary chieftaincy title of Babare of Ayetoro in 1989, Bagile of Gbagura and two more titles. He was also the Vice President – Nigeria Corrosion Association;  Chairman – Chemical Society of Nigeria,  Lagos chapter; Member – National Council of the Chemical Society of Nigeria. He was also a Fellow -Nigerian Corrosion Association, fellow -National institute of marketing and Life Member, Chemical Society of Nigeria.He was a dutiful father and husband, a determined and purposeful man, a transformer, a devoted follower , a visionary and inspirational leader, a cheerful giver , a man with a beautiful heart. He is fondly remembered by his wife, Aderemi Olanrewaju Sanni, children: -Mr  Oyedele Gbemileke Sanni, Mrs. Yeyemide Remilekun  Fabanwo , Miss Yetunde Anuoluwapo Sanni ,siblings, family members, friends and colleagues.  May this soul continue to rest in the bosom of Almighty God. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .