 Governor of Kebbi, Abubakar Atiku Bagudu  Bagudu gave the assurance in Birnin Kebbi at the inauguration of a recreational centre buillt by a private investor, Mallam Isyaku Abdullahi. He acknowledged that the centre would serve  as a place for social and recreational gathering and also  for economic prosperity and employment generation for the people. “I am happy with the owner for the modern sporting, educational and entertainment facilities installed at this centre.” They will be  beneficial to all manner of people – males and females as well as students,” he said. Bagudu also assured the citizens of the state that his administration  would continue to provide moral and material supports to attract investors into all sectors of the state.He said such would help to hasten the industrialisation of the state. The governor also said that plans were under way to organise a football match between the Kebbi state-owned Football Club, Kebbi United,  to play against one of the international professional clubs.He said that it would expose the players to soccer professionalism. “Already our students are now undergoing courses in Kwara Soccer Academy, Kwara State, in furtherance of our administration’s efforts to develop sports and recreation in the state. ” The government will partner the management of just inugurated recreation centre, named “AZBIR ARENA” to attract patronage from within and outside the state as well as entrench the virtues of creativity among the people,” he said. Bagudu, however, said  that his administration would continue to develop tourism potential of the state. He said this would include the promotion of the  Riggata Boat Festival in Yauri, Uhola in Zuru, Huttungo in Gwandu and theFishing Festival in Argungu emirates. Earlier, the chairman of the centre, Mallam Isyaku Abdullahi, said that the  centre would provide an opportunity for  the people, especially youths,  to contribute to the development of the state. “The idea is also in consonance with  the campaigns by Gov. Atiku Bagudu, calling on investors to be active partners in the economic development of the state. He pledged his  unflinching commitment to the government toward taking the state to the “next level”.Abdullahi said  that the centre had already provided employment to 115  staff to run its affairs. “This is also in line with the policy of  the incumbent administration on the creation of job opportunities and enhance entrepreneurship,” he added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .