Guinea’s coach Paul Put leads a training session at the Alexandria stadium in Alexandria, northern Egypt, on June 25, 2019, on the eve of the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (CAN) football match between Nigeria and Guinea.<br />Giuseppe CACACE / AFP Coach Paul Put of Guinea yesterday admitted that Nigeria has a lot of players with quality, adding, however, that his team is also peopled by top stars, who can hold their own against any team in Africa. Nigeria will meet Guinea in their second Group B game of the on-going African Nations Cup in Alexandria, Egypt today. In their first games, Nigeria defeated Burundi 1-0, while Guinea drew 2-2 with Madagascar. Most pundits here believe that the Super Eagles are favourites for the three points, but Put says Nigeria would be living in fools paradise if they believe Guinea would lie down to be slaughtered. “We have to be realistic, I think the Nigerian side are the favourites on this match, but I am confident my boys will get a good result against them. “I know we are facing a big team with big players. But we will do our best to achieve the result we hope for. It is a good sign for us that my team are showing confidence in training for the game,” he said. Explaining why they failed to beat Madagascar in their first game, Put said the two goals his goalkeeper conceded were needless errors, adding, however, that he is satisfied with the performance of the defenders.  “The goals we conceded against Madagascar were the errors of the goalkeeper. Our defence was okay. We have talents, who I believe can do something in tomorrow’s game. “We want to show our quality too by beating Nigeria,” he said, adding that he would correct the errors they made against Madagascar before today. “Our players need to be motivated to beat the Nigerians. I don’t think we are under any kind of pressure after our draw against Madagascar. But we are going to start tomorrow’s (today) game with our best 11 players,” he stated. Meanwhile, Guinean left back, Issiaga Sylla, who stood in as the captain against Madagascar, sees today’s encounter as an interesting fixture, adding that his country has nothing to lose if the result went the other way. “It is always nice playing against Nigeria because they are one of the big teams on the continent. I know we will try our best because I believe we too have some quality players in the team. “I know it is not going to be easy for us, but we will see to it that we get good result against them. We have Naby Keita, who can bring us so much into the team. And for the weather, we can manage it to our advantage,” he stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .