Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa Bayelsa State Governor Seriake Dickson has said he would lead the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), with the support of leaders in the state, towards ensuring that the baton of leadership is handed over to another PDP governor. Governor Dickson stated this at a PDP stakeholders’ meeting in Yenagoa on Tuesday.A statement by his Special Adviser on Media Relations, Fidelis Soriwei, quoted the governor as advising PDP aspirants to play politics against the opposition, rather than causing division in their own party. Dickson reminded the people that the last election showed how the federal government deployed its might to undermine the security of the state in favour of All Progressives Congress (APC) members.He, therefore, urged the PDP aspirants seeking elective positions in the forthcoming council and governorship polls to embark on massive mobilisation of people across the communities to achieve victory for the party. According to the governor, PDP aspirants have a better platform to contest elections and should campaign on the strength of the party’s landmark achievements in the state.He stressed that the PDP was the only political party with the popularity and strength to win credible elections in the state. The chairman of PDP Governors Forum (PDPGF) cautioned that the governorship election in Bayelsa would be a clash of two systems: the PDP and its massive supporters in the various constituencies and communities with the APC, backed by federal forces to attempt to wrest political control. He said, “Another PDP governor will emerge in the next election. I urge all the people to step into the communities and mobilise the people. It will be my pleasure to lead the PDP with your support, so that another PDP governor will be elected. “We survived in the 2015 governorship election by the grace of God and our mobilisation skills. You now have people who know how to play opposition politics. As we begin the transition programme, we expect you to put on the toga of an opposition person. “You have a lot of work to do. It is their work to sow seeds of discord, but it’s your job to keep your party united, strong and stable.”While calling on the people not to use former President Goodluck Jonathan’s name to destabilise the party, Dickson pleaded with stakeholders of the party to enforce the 30 per cent affirmative action for women in councillorship positions.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .