 Jelani Aliyu  The initiative is expected to create jobs and train over 20,000 youths on repairs and sale of motor spare parts and accessories in the area.NADDC, which was formed by the Act No 85 of May 30th, 2014, to transform Nigeria into modern industrialised nation, is also working to replicate the mechanic village in other six geo-political zones of the country in its second phase. The Director General of NADDC, Jelani Aliyu, disclosed this at the official presentation of documentary of the proposed mechanic village at the Katsina Governor’s house in Abuja.The proposal revealed that the village is expected to accommodate spare parts dealers, mechanic workshops, training school, and food vendors among others. Speaking at the presentation of the documentary in the presence of the Katsina State Governor, Aminu Bello Masari, the NADDC helmsman said the move has become necessary to enable trained Nigerians become experts in the industry sector as well as conserve the nation’s foreign exchange in line with governments Economic Recovering and Growth Plans (ERGP). He said the idea will also improve the lives of over 50 per cent Nigerians living in rural communities to have assets to easy transportation services. In his remarks, Masari, who expressed gratitude to the council, said time has come for Nigeria to develop the capacity of importing new cars that are serviceable and could be repaired by Nigerians. Masari said: “I am deeply worried that only few people can afford new cars in the country today. Indeed, this has given room for the importation of used cars worth over N8 billion annually into the country. Even at that, some of the cars are not serviceable. It is unfortunate that we don’t even have our own experts who can service some of these imported cars except we import foreign mechanics. This is unacceptable.” The governor enjoined the NADDC management to also engage in frantic discussions with other state governors to key into the gesture for the benefit of unemployed youths. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .