 [FILES] Oyo State Commissioner of Police, Shina Olukolu. Photo/InsideOyo  According to the police, she was strangulated to death and her head and arm cut off by the prophet known as ‘Arole Jesu’ in Igbo-Ora area of Oyo State. The Commissioner of Police, Shina Olukolu, who led a team of policemen to the location where the victim was buried, noted that the deceased, a housewife from Ilorin in Kwara State, was lured to Igboora in Oyo with a view in finding solution to her social/economic/marital problem by a spiritualist, Dotun Ogunlade a.k.a  Woli Arole Jesu. The police boss said on arrival of the woman at Igboora, she was drugged under the pretext of solving the problem of fatigue occasioned by the stress of the trip and she was allegedly injected with an overdose of sleeping drug before she was strangulated and killed. Later, her head and arm were severed and the remainder of the body buried in a shallow grave at Ogboja area of Igbo-Ora. Olukolu added that based on diligent investigation, the police in Igbo-Ora were able to smash and arrested the suspect. “Further investigation revealed that the severed parts were crushed into powder for rituals to become powerful and rich, two knives used to sever the body parts, a white cloth bag containing substance inside a gourd where the alleged powder from the severed parts was kept and a bottle of Stallion Schnapps were recovered.” The alleged ritualist, while talking to journalists in Igbo-Ora, said: “I gained the church experience from my former boss who was a prophet in a Cherubim and Seraphim church, I later set up my own church after the death of my grandpa. “The woman and I have been chatting on Facebook since January this year, I later told him to come and pay me a visit here, which she later agreed. The woman came at night from Ilorin to Iseyin where I went to pick her to Igbo-Ora, I gave her a sedative injection on May 31, after she complained about pains in her body. She slept off and I cut off her head, her body was later burnt to ashes”. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .