 Port Manager, Calabar Port, Olufunmilayo Olotu (left); General Manager, ECM Terminals Limited, Calabar Free Port, Diran Akorede; Paramount Ruler of Calabar Municipality, Ndidem Patrick Inok Oqua-Agbor; and the Deputy Controller, Admin, Nigeria Customs Service, Akwa Ibom Command, Bisi Alade at the commissioning of classroom block, offices with toilets and motorized water scheme for Government Primary School, Esuk Out, in Municipality, Calabar, Cross River State.					PHOTO: SULAIMON SALAU  The school was furnished with modern classrooms, offices, desks, chairs, a water supply system and connection to public power supply. General Manager, ECM Terminals Limited, Calabar Free Port, Diran Akorede, said the facilities are targeted at improving quality of education of the children in its host community. He said: “Since commencement of operations in Calabar Port in August 2007, we have invested massively in infrastructure, equipment, processes, and developed the human capacity, which has impacted positively in meeting the service delivery expectation of our esteemed customers. “It is worthy of mention that our systems and processes are in conformity with global best practices. We are ISO 9001:2015 certified,” he said. Akorede urged the Federal Government to ensure the dredging of the Calabar channel to the advertised draft of 10 meters, as the port currently has an approached draft of 6.4m, which is negatively impacting on the realisation of its optimal potential, thereby rendering the facility grossly underutilised. The Commissioner for Education, Cross River State, represented by the Director of Projects, Bassey Okon Bassey, said the gesture would go a long way in alleviating the congestion of classrooms in the school. He said, “the Ministry of Education and the State Government appreciate ECM Terminals for the good gesture to improve quality of education in Calabar.” The Paramount Ruler of Calabar Municipality, Ndidem Patrick Inok Oqua-Agbor, who officially inaugurated the facility, said the project would uplift the status of the school to a model public primary school. He applauded ECM Terminals for the project, and enjoined the school authority to ensure judicious use of the facility and proper maintenance. Port Manager, Calabar Port, Olufunmilayo Olotu, described the project as a milestone intervention towards preparing the children for a brighter future. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .