 Yinka Odumakin  A Yoruba socio-cultural group, Apapo O’odua Koya, (AOKOYA), has alleged that dozens of Yoruba and Igbo youths were about being framed up by the police high command with kidnappings. It claimed that the force was deploying its covert code-name ‘Operation Stealth’ in cahoots with other security agencies to set up several people of Yoruba origin on the allegation that they were involved in the abductions within the South West region In a statement by its Secretary for Strategy, Col. Abimbola Sowunmi (rtd) and Deputy Secretary for Publicity, Ismail Abiodun, the body claimed that the plan was being coordinated from the force headquarters in Abuja under a deputy commissioner of police from Kano State. Reacting, Force Public Relations Officer DCP Frank Mba, debunked the claim, pointing out that his organisation was made up of some of the best and finest Nigerians and remained a Pan Nigeria agency saddled with the task of protecting the citizens irrespective of tribes, religions and political affiliations. “Our loyalty is to the constitution, laws and people of Nigeria. We do not profile criminals on the basis of where they come from but the evidence against them,” he stated. Meanwhile, former Minister of Transport, Chief Ebenezer Babatope, and Afenifere spokesman, Mr. Yinka Odumakin yesterday in separate chats with The Guardian urged governors from the South West region, especially those of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), to show more commitment to the security of their people instead of blind loyalty to their party. Babatope, who expressed concern over the activities of armed herdsmen in his home state of Osun, appealed to the governors to prioritise security. Odumakin on his part said: “The problem with our governors in the region, especially those in the ruling party, is that they do not want to offend the northern oligarchy, which they regard as owners of APC. For instance, when an entire local government was recently took over by armed herdsmen in Ondo State, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu hardly issued a statement except the outcry from the traditional rulers and others. It was only the former Governor of Ekiti State, Ayo Fayose who took a decisive action against herdsmen’s activities when he was in office. No critical step has been taken since Governor Kayode Fayemi emerged.” Also, the Aare Ona Kankanfo of Yoruba land, Otunba Gani Adams, decried the insecurity in the country.Speaking through his Special Assistant on Media, Kehinde Aderemi, Adams submitted that he had written twice to the governors on the security situation in Yoruba land especially the one constituted by the gun-wielding nomads with none of them allegedly responding.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .