 [FILE] Chairman, Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE), Ikeja branch, Mrs. Olufunmilade  Akingbagbohun;  Deputy Director, Projects, Lagos Ministry of Works and Infrastructure, Bashiru Adewale; Project Manager, Hitech Construction Company,Mrs. Abiola Kosegbe;  Resident Engineer, Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Mr. Sachin Ramsunder; General Manager. Lagos State Material Testing Laboratory, Mrs. Ronke Olukoko; Past chairman, NSE, Ikeja branch, Olalekan Ajani and Mr. Charles Akintola during an industrial visit to the ongoing construction works at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport road in Lagos.  She said Nigerian engineers have the potential to develop equipment that could solve major challenges in the society with the use of locally available materials. Akingbagbohun said the level of innovation in Nigeria is very low due to lack of sophisticated business community, which poses a threat to economic development. “The fair is coming up because we identified a huge gap between the grass root and the industry. It is a great shame when we have toothpicks and biros are produced out of Nigeria. These items are they produce by Nigerians that are in other country? That is why we came up with an idea to have an innovation fair where machine components produced by Nigerians can be showcased,” she explained.
  
The guest speaker, Nimot Muili, urged Nigerian engineers to come up with innovations that will solve the environmental challenges. “There is need to move with innovative trend that is going on around the world in order not to be behind other nation.”
  
The Chairman, Organising Committee, Oluwatosin Ogunmola, said the platform will encourage innovators and also network innovators with those that are in need of their invention. “The fair is an avenue to showcase innovations of Nigeria engineers to outer world and bring in potential investors that will be interested in commercialising the products.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .