Former Chairman of the Senate Committee on Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Senator Peter Nwaoboshi, has gotten a reprieve from arrest and other punitive actions planned against him by the Special Presidential Investigation Panel (SPIP) for recovery of public property. A Federal High Court in Abuja presided over by Justice J. T. Tsoho, granted an order directing that the status quo as at the 31st day of May 2019 be maintained in respect of the matter of alleged non-declaration of asset which the Presidential Panel has been investigating against Nwaoboshi. “Upon this motion Ex-party dated, 08/6/2019 but filed on 10/06/2019, the court ordered that the status quo as at 31st day of May 2019 in respect of this matter be maintained pending the hearing and determination of the applicant’s originating motion on notice.” The suit was adjourned to the 25th of June, 2019 for hearing of the Applicant’s Motion on Notice. In the originating motion, Nwaoboshi had asked the Court for an Order of Interim Injunction restraining the Respondents (SPIP and its chairman, Okoi Obono-Obla) , from taking any  action in furtherance of the purported “Notice to Declare assets” and “Investigation Activities: Invitation Letter” pending the hearing and final determination Of the Applicant’s Originating application in this Suit. The SPIP had last Monday asked the Director of Public Prosecutions of the Federation (DPPF) to commence a proper prosecution against Nwaoboshi over his alleged failure to declare his assets when he was given an asset declaration form to fill during his interrogation by the panel. The Senator was alleged to have corruptly enriched himself and abused his position as Chairman of Senate Committee of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDCC) through the award of multi-billion naira contracts to companies linked to him but failed to execute the projects. According to the SPIP, Nwaoboshi has refused to declare his assets before the panel after lawful demand by the special presidential investigation panel,” “This refusal is contrary to and punishable under section 3(i)(a) of the Recovery of Public Property (Special Provisions) Act 2004. “It shall be appreciated if a charge is brought against him for this offence pending the conclusion of the investigation. “We hereby attach a draft charge against him, for your perusal and further action, please.” SPIP had stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .