 [FILE] Nigerian forward  Odion Ighalo (C) heads to control the ball. (Photo by PIUS UTOMI EKPEI / AFP)  Nigeria will meet Madagascar in their last Group B match of the competition at the Alexandria Stadium in Egypt.With six points from two games, Eagles would try to beat the Barea of Madagascar, who are second on the log, to consolidate their position as group leaders. Aside from Nigeria, who has gained qualification already, the other countries in the group are still hopeful of qualification.
 
Speaking to The Guardian on Friday night, Ighalo said the team has both young and experienced players, who are ready to face any team that comes their way in the competition.
 
“We are ready because we have young and experienced players in the team. Some of the guys that have not played now, are ready to go when they are called upon and even ready to spring surprises.
 
“We have a team that can do well, that can go far in the tournament. But we have to keep going game by game. Keep working at each other’s game and we see how far we go,” he said.
 
The Shanghai Greenland Shenhua of China player said the players were raring to go because they are in the tournament to achieve a goal. “Everything is okay in the camp and as you can see, there is no sign of any problem any more. As in our last game against Guinea, you will see that we fought hard from the first minute to the last minute and we won the game,” he said, adding that everyone is happy.
 
“As you can see, we just celebrated the birthdays of the coach and Leon Balogun. We just finished our dinner now and everybody is happy. Camp is bubbling, so we don’t have any problem here,” he said. Ighalo added, “I will say we are ready, but for now, we have a game on Sunday (today), which is the third game and we want to think about that, how we will try to win it. Then when we get to the bridge of the second round, we just have to cross it by God’s grace, he stated.
 
Meanwhile, it was celebration in the hotel as Coach Gernot Rohr and Leon Balogun marked their birthdays in their hotel to the delight of some Egyptians, who seized the opportunity to snap pictures with the Nigerian stars.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .