 Argentina’s Lionel Messi (L) smiles next to the president of Argentina’s Football Federation (AFA), Claudio Tapia after the team defeated Nicaragua 5-1 in an international friendly football match at the San Juan del Bicentenario stadium in San Juan, Argentina, on June 7, 2019. (Photo by Andres LARROVERE / AFP)  Barcelona and Argentina star Messi dethroned retired boxer Floyd Mayweather as the sports world’s highest earner, raking in $127 million via salary and endorsement deals. That put Messi ahead of long-time rival Cristiano Ronaldo, the Juventus and Portugal star who was second with earnings of $109 million. Brazil and Paris Saint-Germain striker Neymar completed a sweep of the top three positions by footballers, coming in third with earnings of $105 million. The fourth highest earner on the list was Mexico’s middleweight boxing star Saul “Canelo” Alvarez with $94 million. Alvarez, who defeated Gennady Golovkin last September to become the unified middleweight champion, inked the richest deal in boxing history last October, signing a five-year 11-fight contract with streaming network DAZN worth $365 million. Evergreen tennis star Roger Federer was fifth on the list with total earnings of $93.4 million. The bulk of Federer’s earnings came through lucrative endorsement deals, with the 20-time Grand Slam singles champion pocketing $86 million. Stars from the NFL and NBA rounded out the top 10 on the list, with Seattle Seahawks quarterback Russell Wilson sixth on $89.5 million, just ahead of Green Bay Packers signal-caller Aaron Rodgers ($89.3 million). Los Angeles Lakers star LeBron James was the highest earning NBA player, with $89 million, while Golden State’s Stephen Curry was ninth with $79.8 million. Curry’s Golden State team-mate Kevin Durant was 10th on the rankings with $65.4 million. Former world number one Tiger Woods was 11th on the list with $69.3 million, which included an estimated $54 million in endorsements. Meanwhile, tennis superstar Serena Williams was the only woman to make the list, coming in at 63rd with earnings of $29.2 million. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .