 smartphones  IDC noted that the Africa’s smartphone market continues to be spurred by the growing popularity of low-end to mid-range devices. Transsion brands (Tecno and Itel) top these segments and remain the continent’s leaders in terms of overall smartphone shipments, together accounting 33.1 per cent of the market’s volume in Q1 2019. Samsung followed in second place with 24.5 per cent unit share. Huawei ranked third with a unit share of 11.8 per cent.
  
“With most of the continent’s markets experiencing numerous economic challenges, it is clear that cheaper phones offering better value will increasingly dominate the market,” Ponela stated.
 
In the feature phone space, shipments were down 5.8 per cent QoQ and 0.3 per cent YoY in Q1 2019, with shipments totaling 31.6 million units. Feature phones still constitute a significant 59.9 per cent share of the total mobile phone market due to their relative affordability and durability, and they continue to play an important role in connecting even more Africans to the internet. Transsion brands Tecno and Itel continue to dominate the feature phone landscape with a combined unit share of 59.7 per cent, followed in third place by HMD with 9.2 per cent share.
  
Looking ahead, IDC expects Africa’s overall mobile phone market to total 50.9 million units in Q2 2019, reflecting a YoY decline of 5.3 per cent caused by sharp downturns in most countries.
 
According to a research manager at IDC, Ramazan Yavuz, “Africa is susceptible to challenging local macroeconomic environments as well as to the global tensions surrounding international trade. Another factor is the rise of protectionist measures aimed at controlling smartphone shipments in multiple countries, which causes sudden short-term swings in the market’s performance.”
 
IDC’s research showed that 4G LTE networks are continuing to spread their reach in Africa, with shipments of 4G LTE devices increasing 15.1 per cent YoY in Q1 2019 to constitute 67.1 per cent of the smartphone market.
 
“A drop in prices for entry-level 4G phones and discounted tariff and data plans on the operator side are driving this growth. However, despite the rapid penetration of 4G handsets, 2G and 3G mobile devices remain resilient as an economical option for price sensitive consumers,” Yavuz stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .