Wale Ajisebutu, Chief Executive Officer, 21st Century Technologies (left) and Ken Nwogbo, Founder/Editor-in-Chief, Nigeria CommunicationsWeek Media during a courtesy call to 21st Century Technologies in Lagos recently. 21st Century Technologies Limited, Nigeria’s ICT powerhouse has obtained a Tier IV certification from Uptime Institute, the first time for any telecommunications company in Africa. Also by the certification, 21st Century Technologies has become the most certified ICT firm in the country Uptime Institute provides standards globally for the design, construction and operations of data centres in the IT industry. With its data centre tier standard & certifications, management & operations reviews, efficient IT stamp of approval, and accredited educational curriculum for data centre professionals; Uptime Institute helps organizations optimize critical IT assets while managing costs, resources and efficiency. By this certification, 21st Century Technologies’ data centre cannot go down for more than 23 minutes in a year. Wale Ajisebutu, chief executive officer, 21st Century Technologies, told NigeriaCommunicationsWeek, in Lagos that his company, has been at the forefront of data center evolution in the country, by building compelling infrastructure that will take the country to the next level in terms of technology and ICT development. According to him. “We need many data centres in Nigeria and 21st Century Technologies is going to build about 10 data centres across the country, we will build about eight in Lagos, in every business districts of Lagos, like Apapa, ikeja, Ikoyi, Victoria Island and other business district in Lagos. “We are building Tier IV data centres in these areas, we are also building one in Abuja and Ogun state. We will more or less dominate data centre space in Nigeria in the next two or three years”. He added that they are committed to building compelling infrastructure that will take the country to the next level, noting that without adequate ICT infrastructure the country cannot move forward. Ajisebutu submitted that in order to run an efficient Tier IV data centre, they have decided to build four power infrastructure that will ensure that they do not have any downtime. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .