 Technology (ICT). Photo/smarterware  Mr. Istifanus Musa, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Communications, made this call on Thursday at the Nigeria DigitalSENSE Forum Series 2019, with the theme: ‘Connecting Nigerians for Enhanced Internet Governance’, held in Lagos. Musa, who was represented by Engr. Olufemi Olufeko, Director, E-Government, Ministry of Communications said that adequate Internet Governance policy framework will enhance and accelerate ICT development in key areas of life. He noted that internet accessibility should be made available for everyone and everywhere before this growth will be attained. According to him, “there is need for an ideal policy framework which Provides for an enabling rather than a restrictive environment to foster dynamic, efficient and flexible interconnection to networks. “The framework should encompass three broad areas expansion of Infrastructure, Skills Development & Entrepreneurship, and open up governance structures around the Internet to a multi-stakeholder approach (Public, Private, and Citizenry). “The internet will only be fully adopted, and its benefits universally shared, when there is compelling local framework made available locally. “Further, there is a clear need to develop human capacity and open up governance structure around the internet to a multi-stakeholder approach. He added that the Ministry is focused on lifting the lives of Nigerians through provision of affordable ICT solutions and promulgation of enabling policies to help ICT industry growth. He thanked the organizers of the event for their consistency in putting together the  internet based skill acquisition training and workshops targeted at the younger generation for the path of ICT related career. Mrs. Nkem Nweke, Executive director, Operations DigitalSENSE Africa (DSA), speaking at the event said that the forum which is in its 10th edition was created as a think-tank platform where Nigerian internet stakeholders converge annually to raise and address germane issues concerning the information and communication technology (ICT) sector.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .