Founder/ Group CEO of Rungas Group, Nigeria, Lanre Runsewe (left) in a handshake with Vice- Chairman & Managing Director of the National Organisation for Military Production, Dr. Engr Hassan Ahmed Abd Elmagied (representing the Egyptian Minister of State for Military Production) and Hussam Saheb (far right) of United Group (joint venture promoters of the gas project), at the signing of the partnership agreement on gas cylinders between Rungas and Egyptian Govt. Rungas Industries, a subsidiary of Rungas Group of Companies in collaboration with United Group of Egypt has secured an executive partnership with the National Organisation for Military Production (Egyptian Government) to produce and assist with the distribution of LPG (Liquefied Petroleum Gas) and CNG (Compressed Natural Gas) Composite Cylinders. According to the firm, the Egyptian Government has already allocated 28,000 square meters of land for the $30 million projects in Alexandria; which is the home for the Egyptian Gas Industrial Park. The facility will be producing 200,000 LPG Composite Cylinders for domestic use (cooking) and 130,000 CNG cylinders for vehicles and automobiles. Similarly, Rungas in conjunction with Amtrol-Alfa Worthington of Portugal are providing the technology and technical know how to set up the type III LPG Composite Cylinder Facility which will be dedicated to domestic use whilst the CNG cylinders produced will be used for vehicles across Egypt. Both products will be exported from Egypt to neighbouring Arab Countries as well as serve the North and Eastern African markets (benefiting from international trade agreements that are already in place) Also, the Egyptian Government has mandated Rungas and their partner United Group to set up the facilities after extensive product research was carried out and Amtrol facility in Portugal was visited by an Egyptian delegation to carry out a compliance inspection to ensure that cylinders met all standards for cylinder production in Egypt. The Vice Chairman and Managing Director of the National Organisation for Military Production – Dr. Engineer Hassan Ahmad Ab Elimagied executed the contracts on behalf of the Egyptian Government and provided his support verbally for the project. The CEO of Rungas Industries and the Group Chief Executive Officer of the Rungas Group of Companies, Lanre Runsewe, in a statement made available to The Guardian, stated that the partnership with the Egyptians, coupled with the ongoing launch plans for setting up a state of the art LPG Composite in Nigeria, will aid Rungas to be a continental force. “Rungas has been an agent of Amtrol Alfa- Worthington, promoting LPG composite cylinders across the West Africa sub-region – whilst operating an import and supply model. We have been supplying composite cylinders to Oil Major and Independent retailers across 10 states of Nigeria – clients are Oando, MRS, Forte Oil, Ultimate Gas and Sublime to name but a Few”, he added. He said the company has received approval from the Ghana Standards Authority to supply and distribute to the Ghanaian market, Amtrol LPG Composite Cylinders and are in the process of gaining regulatory approvals in Cameroon and Cote D’Ivoire. Runsewe stated that the Type IV CNG Composite Cylinders that would be produced would be the first of its kind in Africa, Asia, and Middle East continents. The cylinders according to him would be in two sizes – the LPG Cylinders would have a capacity of 60 litres for domestic use and the cylinders for the public vehicles would be 80 Litres. He also stated that “CNG is important for the Egyptian Government because of the need to run on cleaner fuel and also to meet IMF condition which advised the country to reduce fuel subsidy”. The Ministry of Armed Production has actually engaged with CNG operators who currently import the product from India, China, and Italy to embrace this new development. Runsewe said that with the groundbreaking for the project set for September 2019, production of LPG cylinders is expected to start within nine months from the groundbreaking date whilst the launch date for the CNG Composite Cylinders is 18 months. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .