Pastor ends marriage over wife’s refusal to ‘go for deliverance’ A 76-year-old woman, Olabisi Olowoopejo, has appeared before an Ikeja Chief Magistrates’ Court for allegedly exhuming her late husband’s body from where it was buried. Olowoopejo, who resides in Oshodi area of Lagos State, is facing a three-count-charge of breach of peace, forgery and conspiracy.
   
One of the defendant’s sons,  Bashiru Olowoopejo, reported the case to the police after the defendant exhumed the body. It was gathered that the defendant allegedly forged Oshodi/Isolo Local Government exhumation of body permit and unlawfully carried out the act. The defendant pleaded not guilty to the charge	.
   
According to the prosecutor, Sgt. Michael Unah, the defendant conducted herself in a manner likely to cause breach of the peace. He noted that she, with others still at large, exhumed the body of her husband, one late Alani Olowoopejo, who died in 1995, from where he was buried on March 1, at her residence. 
   
The Chief Magistrate, Mr. A.A. Fashola, granted the defendant N50,000 bail, with one surety in like sum. The magistrate adjourned the case until July 22 for mention. Meanwhile, Pastor Omotilewa Oke, 44, on Monday, secured a divorce at an Igando Customary Court in Lagos, over his wife’s refusal to go for deliverance. Oke said his wife of six years, Shola, with whom he had two children, behaves in an irrational way.
 
“She fights me everyday and also fights with neighbours over minor issues to the extent that people in our area know us for frequent fighting. I knew that something was wrong and I asked her to go for deliverance. When she refused, I stopped sleeping with her and eating her food because I don’t want any calamity to befall me.’’
 
Oke prayed the court to terminate the union, saying he was no longer interested. However, 37-year-old Shola, a civil servant, denied the allegations, saying that her husband was an ingrate. “After I married my husband, I discovered that he does not have an Ordinary National Diploma as he made me believe.
 
“He did not even finish secondary school but I decided to stay in the marriage. He does not have a house of his own; my mother rented a two-bedroom apartment for us after our marriage.”
 
The mother of two added that her husband was irresponsible. “He does not give me money for food but will want to eat. He has money but just refused to release it. Shola consented to the dissolution of the marriage, saying that she was also fed up. The court president, Adeniyi Koledoye, held that the estranged couple was tired of the marriage and all efforts to reconcile them failed. “Since both parties consented to the dissolution, this court has no choice than to dissolve the marriage. The court hereby pronounces the marriage between Pastor Omotilewa Oke and Mrs. Shola Oke dissolved today; both of you henceforth cease to be husband and wife. “The two children, who are minors, should be in their mother’s custody, while the petitioner must be paying N10,000 monthly for their feeding and be responsible for their education and general welfare,’’ Koledoye said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .