 Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria. Photo/Nairametrics  He joined the profession in 1982, as associate member and has been a member of ICAN’s Council since 2007, serving in various committees and capacities for the institution. Okwuadigbo had worked in Union Bank, accounting firms, and the Ministry of Finance. Speaking during his investiture in Lagos, Okwuadigbo declared that the position is a clarion call to service for all who have a stake in a value-driven profession and the virility of the Institute. He assured that in the next 12-months, the leadership would strive to improve the quality of service delivery such that stakeholders find the need to be associated with the Institute and profession. “I promise to give my best to the cause of the profession and the Institute at all times no matter the odds. Given the quality of members of the Presidency and Council, whose unswerving support, cooperation and collective wisdom I trust, I am certain that the foundation for the Institute’s further advancement and success in the new presidential dispensation has effectively been laid.”
   
He said after a painstaking analysis of the fundamentals of the profession in relation to efficient services delivery, the administration has resolved that capacity building would continue to be a strategy in the scheme of events. He stressed that the presidential year as been tagged, “Harnessing internal capacity”, which translates to empowering internal skills, building stability and sustainability.” Specifically, he said the administration would “focus on safeguarding the integrity of the institute’s examination processes, building partnership with tertiary institutions, improve relationship with other professional bodies, promoting students and members development, and increase our anticorruption crusade and advocacy role. “In an era in which the economic virility and clout of any nation are inextricably bound to the degree of adherence to universally accepted ethical value, the Accounting profession in Nigeria, as in other parts of the world, must continue to lead the crusade for transparency and accountability in governance. As seasoned professionals, we must, in words and actions, remain the foe of deceits and champion of honesty. We must be prepared to support our members to ensure that they continually render value-laden services to clients, employers and the society at large in strict conformity with the ethics of our profession. “We shall adopt appropriate technology tools to improve our processes. In this Presidential year, we shall reinvigorate our E-learning facilities. This will be of benefits to our members in diverse locations to maintain and be up-to-date with their Mandatory Continuing Professional Education (MCPE). We shall also adopt effectively our E-meeting platforms and facilities. If effectively utilised, the cost of Committee meetings will be reduced as well as travelling risks and inconvenience to our members attending meetings in Lagos from various destinations,” he said. In his valedictory remarks, out-gone president, Rasaq Jaiyeola, noted that in the last two years, the institute has been able to sustain its tradition of accuracy and integrity as well as enforced discipline among its folds.
He said ICAN was able to play active role in global and regional bodies, supported the federal government’s anti-graft war and vigorously protected the profession from infiltrators and unnecessary duplication of its fundamental role in the country. “The ICAN’s Disciplinary Tribunal considered a total of 12 cases and one application for reinstatement. Some were concluded and a member was re-admitted after serving suspension for three years. Our Students’ Investigating Committee also concluded 17 cases with different sanctions meted out. Our humble achievements would have been a mirage without the support of our numerous stakeholders,” he maintained. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .