A man identified as Okiki Akintola, aged 50, and his son Mohammed, 22, have been arraigned before an Ikorodu Magistrates’ Court in Agbowa for alleged assault on an employee of Ikeja Electric (IE). Their arraignment followed a viral video on social media last week, which showed the duo and a teenager, Abdulameed Okiki, attacking the electricity distribution worker who was part of a team on official duty at Temidire CDA, Araromi in Oluhunda community of Adamo, Ikorodu on May 22. The defendants were seen in the video attempting to fall a linesman off a 30-feet ladder he used to climb a pole in their neighbourhood apparently to disconnect their light. Consequently, they were arrested and arraigned on five counts of conspiracy, assault, obstruction of lawful duty under Section 117 (2) of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015, before Magistrate A.O. Ogbe on Friday. The defendants pleaded not guilty to the charges and were admitted to bail in N20,000 each with a reliable surety who must produce evidence of tax for one year. The case was adjourned till June 24. Reacting to the viral videos showing attacks on its staff last week, the company, through its head of corporate communications, Felix Ofulue, restated its commitment to the safety of its staff across its network area. He said the company was aware of the wave of malicious attacks on its staff by some customers and cautioned that the management will not allow unwarranted attack of its staff.He disclosed that some of the attackers in the past cases had been sentenced to prison by court, while urging aggrieved customers to remain mindful of these matters and adopt a more civil approach to engagement with staff. According to him, Section 173 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State states that any person who unlawfully assaults another and thereby does him harm commits felony and is liable on conviction to imprisonment for three years. “It is wrong for persons to attack our technical staff who are on the ladder, it is also an offence to throw them off the ladder. We will not hesitate to seek redress through any means within the limits of law,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .