 Group Managing Director, Chief Executive Officer of Gospell Digital Technology Limited, and Chairman Set Top Box Manufacturers Association Of Nigeria (STBMAN), Sir Godfrey Ohuabunwa. Photo/ technologytimes  The agreement, which includes all FIFA events for this year starting with the ongoing U20 World Cup in Poland, where the country’s Flying Eagles have crashed out. Remarkably, the broadcast of the Super Falcons’ participation in the Women’s World Cup in France would be delayed following the issue of getting down link of the signal and other challenges. According to the acting Chairman of BON, Godfrey Ohuabunwa, the Super Falcons remaining matches would be broadcast live should the team progress in the tournament. He, however, maintained that the U17 World Cup in Brazil, and the Beach Soccer World Cup in Paraguay, would see BON stations deliver all the matches to the Nigerian audience. “Nigerian football fans now have the opportunity to watch all FIFA World Cup competitions for free and direct to their homes this year,” Ohuabunwa said as he expressed joy over the broadcast rights acquisition, and called on stakeholders, as well as the private sector to make this venture a rewarding and value laden experience for the growth of both broadcast and the sports industries. He said the benefit of the partnership to Nigerian broadcast stations were numerous.“The good thing is that we have broken the ice and I think it is a welcome development that today we are dealing directly with FIFA. The benefit too is that it makes it cheaper; it creates synergy and removes some of the problems we have had before. So, the partnership is the beginning and we hope it would not be the last,” he said. “The rights cost is one-tenth of what it would have cost us if individual stations went to FIFA. So, we can say we’ve got the rights very, very, very reasonably; a reasonable price that will not only be reasonable to us, but enable us to make profit.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .