 Ogun Assembly. Photo/Facebook/ogunhouseofassembly  The Assembly Speaker, Rt Hon Suraju Ishola Adekunbi, also announced the appointment of Hon. Olusola Sonuga as its new Majority Leader, after due consultation with members of the majority party. The resolutions passed included, suspension of Local Government Development Council Areas, suspension of all traditional rulers, 75 of them who were either appointed or promoted between February and May. It also affected the employment of 1000 people to the Civil Service. The passage of the bill titled H. B 047/OG/2019- “Nullification of Irregularities (Amendment) Law, 2019” at the plenary presided over by Speaker, Hon. Suraju Ishola Adekunbi, followed the suspension of the Assembly’s standing orders 45 to 48 to “allow for the consecutive second and third readings of the bill.” The first reading of the bill was by the Deputy Clerk, Mr. Deji Adeyemo after which there was an extensive debate by the 27-member Legislators. The motion for the third reading was moved by the new Majority Leader, Olusola Sonuga, seconded by Olawale Alausa and supported by the entire House, through a voice vote by the members. Earlier while opening debate on the bill, the Deputy Speaker, Olakunle Oluomo, noted that the bill was an amendment to the one earlier passed by the Assembly at the inception of the Senator Ibikunle-led government to reverse all irregularities, especially on employment of over 2, 000 workers purportedly appointed by the then Gbenga Daniel’s administration few months before he exited power. Earlier in their separate submissions, members including the Deputy Speaker, Olakunle Oluomo, Honourables Akinpelu Aina, Olusola Bankole, Olusola Sonuga and Adebowale Ojuri, said the last minute appointments, upgrading and employment by the last administration did not follow due process, lacked merit and was not in good faith and was lopsided. They equally submitted that all financial transactions with any financial institution done by the administration not approved through the House of Assembly resolution should not be honoured by the current government. The resolution directed the State Government to immediately dissolve all chairmen and members of statutory boards and parastatals having been paid their severance allowance by the immediate past administration. The lawmakers urged all the chairmen to hand over government property within their custody to the most senior Director/public servant in their agency for continuous operation of government activities. In a related development, the Assembly through a resolution has equally suspended all political functionaries in all Local Government Councils and Local Council Development Councils  (LCDAs) in the State. It also directed all Local Government political office holders to hand over to the Head of Local Government Administration in their respective councils and LCDAs, while enjoining the Chairmen and House leaders to appear before the Assembly on June 7, 2019  for appropriate investigation on allegations of gross misconduct and misappropriation of public fund in petitions earlier submitted against some of the local government chairmen. The Assembly unanimously passed another resolution calling for the reversal and review of all the upgrading of traditional rulers including Obas and Baales done within the same period for holistic assessment by the new administration with a view to promoting peaceful coexistence and entrenching good governance in the State. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .