Sir: The Senate President, Ahmed Lawan goes for Islamic prayer on Friday with the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (GMB). Many Nigerians know that after such prayers, what follows is political conspiracy in the spirit of “Our brothers and sisters in Islam.” In Kwara State, things are turning out as I predicted: AbdulRahman AbdulRasak-Emirate Dynasty is replacing Abubakar Saraki-Emirate dynasty, and Kwarans have to pray hard so that the current dynasty is not worse than the former, because a person normally surpasses the person he or she strives to emulate, in Yoruba perspective. Personal interests are already overtaking common interests in the state but let the unfolding scenario expose itself. Secondly, nobody supporting GMB can be said to mean well for Nigeria or any part thereof. GMB came, rather than seeking how to achieve peace for progress has been bent on perpetuating carnage and economic destruction of Nigeria, in the unjustifiable war against Boko Haram and protection of the Fulani herdsmen terrorists, leading to mushrooming armed bandits. So, what economic buoyancy is GMB still promising, and Lawan is joining him in deceiving Nigerians that the economy will be boosted to favour everybody? How can economic buoyancy for common Nigerians happen when GMB doubles himself as the Petroleum Minister and is recovering looted funds without accountability for anything to anybody, and the legislators are earning many millions of naira per capita, monthly, while the N30, 000 minimum wage approved for workers is not even paid at the federal level since approved about two months ago? Notwithstanding the economic hardship tugging at Nigerians, Governor Ganduje says he has created four more emirates in Kano State. What law empowers a governor to create a new traditional stool? God Almighty planted African Traditional Religion (ATR). Enemies came and planted Christianity and Islam, using jihadist and crusade wars, enticement and cajolery at the same time. Now, the weeds in mushrooming churches and mosques are choking the crop (ATR). The early Arabs and Europeans who visited Africa when ATR was prevalent said there was peace and decorum and that the level of trust was such that sellers left their wares unattended, and only needed to put indications of the prices, and buyers would pick and drop the pay without any fear of theft. Now in the Christo-Islamic era, not only goods are stolen, even human beings are stolen, kidnapped, murdered and mutilated, as the case may be. The former President, General Olusegun Obasanjo (OBJ), now an Octogenarian, advised Nigerians to form a political party that can reposition the country for peace and progress, but the perpetrators of evil, championed by GMB through creation of supporter-groups throughout Nigeria, demonised OBJ. The Vice-President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo went about distributing money in some markets to confuse the impoverished majority. Alhaji Bola Ahmed Tinubu led the campaign team for GMB and Osinbajo and so on. Nigerians will of course reap what they sowed, locally and nationally.
Prof. Ọlọjẹẹde Oyeniran Abiọjẹ, University of Ilorin.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .