It was praises galore when the immediate past Commissioner for Wealth Creation and Employment, Lagos State, Mrs. Uzamat Akinbile-Yussuf presented a new book that captures her stewardship in office. The book launch was the high point of Akinbile-Yussuf’s 45th birthday held in Ipaja area of Lagos. The event was chaired by the lawmaker representing Alimosho constituency 1 in the Lagos House of Assembly, Bisi Yusuf. The 114- page book, entitled ‘Duty Calls’ was launched by the immediate past Special Adviser to the Governor on Lagos Overseas Affairs, Prof Ademola Abass. Giving her reasons for publishing the book, Akinbile-Yussuf, who had also served as Commissioner for Youth and Social Development, said: “The first section is about my trajectory in public service and commitment to excellent service delivery, especially youth and children as the Commissioner for Youth and Social Development. The second section captures my intervention in wealth creation and empowerment of Lagosians across all facets.‘’ In all, this book is not just a reflection of my commitment to duty and selfless service to the people of the state, but also a compendium of my activities in the last four years of taking up public appointments in two ministries as commissioner. It is for this reason that some photographs capturing some of my activities and programmes in office have been included in this book for posterity sake.’’ While launching the book which contains select speeches and pictorials of activities of the ex-commissioner, Abass poured encomiums on Akinbile-Yussuf, who he described as energetic and mine of ideas. ‘’I met Pharmacist Uzamat Akinbile-Yussuf prior to joining the cabinet of former Governor Akinwunmi Ambode. We both served in the independent campaign group of the former governor and I can therefore attest to her kind of person. ‘’ She is a woman of substance, a great woman of passion  who believes pursuing any cause she thinks would impact humanity with uncommon resilience. I  am not in anyway surprised that she’s being celebrated today by the youth whom she has done a lot for in  the last four years as commissioner.’’ Earlier, there was a youth-based symposium with the Head of Service of Lagos State, Mr Hakeem Muri-Okunola; founder of Arabel Centre, Mrs Shareefat Andu; Mr Abiola Champs Salami; renowned entrepreneur, Mr Kuti George and Mrts Folayemi Olaitan as guest speakers. The guest speakers admonished youths to strive for excellence with due diligence and explore creative ideas for their self-reliance and employment opportunities for others in the society. Akinbile-Yussuf was presented with her portrait by her mentee-youths shortly after the cutting of her birthday cake supervised by the wife of former commissioner for Agriculture, Mrs Oluwatoyin Suarau.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .