 Ex-UEFA chief Michel Platini (R), flanked by his lawyer William Bourdon (L), are seen leaving the Central Office for Combating Corruption and Financial and Tax Crimes after being arrested in connection with a criminal investigation into the award of the 2022 World Cup to Qatar, in Nanterre, west of Paris in the early hours of June 19, 2019. – The banned ex-UEFA chief Michel Platini was freed from French custody Wednesday, an AFP journalist said, after several hours of questioning in connection with a criminal investigation into the awarding of the 2022 World Cup to Qatar.<br />“He is no longer in custody,” William Bourdon, the lawyer of the French football legend, said shortly before 1:00 am. There had been “a lot of fuss over nothing”, he added. (Photo by Zakaria ABDELKAFI / AFP)  Former European football president Michel Platini was questioned by French anti-corruption investigators for several hours on Wednesday in relation to the 2010 award of World Cup hosting rights to gas-rich Qatar. “From what I understood he was not arrested, he was asked for questioning and there’s a very big difference between the two,” Al Thawadi told reporters in Brazil, where Qatar are taking part in the Copa America as guests. “For me there’s no story there, I cannot comment because there’s an investigation ongoing, but I can say that we were not contacted by the authorities. “For us, we have always held ourselves to a high standard, we’ve been investigated by the Garcia Investigation, it exonerated us.” A two-year long FIFA investigation led by American lawyer Michael Garcia cleared Qatar of buying the vote that saw them surprisingly awarded the right to host the 2022 World Cup. It was sparked by accusations that bribes had been paid in the bidding process for the hosting rights of the 2018 — won by Russia — and 2022 World Cup tournaments. Both Russia and Qatar were cleared by the Garcia report. But France’s Office of the Financial Crimes Prosecutor (PNF) opened a preliminary investigation in 2016 into allegations of corruption, conspiracy and influence peddling surrounding those two votes. The French investigation centres on alleged French intervention linked to Platini and former French president Nicolas Sarkozy. According to France Football magazine, a “secret meeting” took place on November 23, 2010, at the Elysee Palace in Paris between Sarkozy, Qatar’s then-Prince (now Emir) Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani, and Platini, who at that time was both UEFA president and vice-president of FIFA. Just over a week later, FIFA voted to award Qatar hosting rights for the 2022 tournament. “We are moving on to deliver a historic World Cup,” added Al-Thawadi.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .