 Asiwaju Bola Tinubu  The thought-provoking brief triggered this article on the state of the Yoruba nation, a subject even journalists of Yoruba extraction, would curiously like to avoid. Here is the thing, there are various social media platforms mainly for lamentation about everything that is wrong with Nigerian politics and policies. On these platforms most times, we avoid critical review of the Yoruba nation beyond power and revenue sharing at the nation’s capital.  All roads to the State capital from Abuja are no longer motorable (1)Ipele/Kabba (2)Owo/Ikare (3)Akure/Ado Ekiti/Ikare (4)Akure/Igbaraoke/Ilawe/Ado Ekiti ..all are so bad that all vehicles hitherto passing through the state to Abuja and the north from Osun, Oyo, Ogun, Lagos and some ECOWAS countries now have to go extra 200 or more kilometres through Benin city or through bush paths to access Lokoja. The bad roads have further exposed travellers to migrant armed robbers and kidnappers thereby giving the state a bad image.
 
An assessment of power outage makes the state the worst hit in Nigeria today. All towns and villages in the South and the North except Owo/Ikare/Akungba have been in darkness between 3 and 6 years…
Akure and Ado Ekiti are the only state capitals in southern Nigeria not accessed by Federal dual carriage roads.
Where is the Federal government’s presence outside the usual (2)Federal University and Federal Medical Centre?
 
The Akure-Ado Ekiti road is a disgrace… It is a reflection of the self-centered politics played in the two States. A strongly worded joint memo to the Federal Government by the six senators with the two governors could have brought the road to the front burner. But, no dice: Everybody is fighting for his or her stomach (stomach infrastructure politics). In the East both legislators and governors lobby and make noise, even blackmail to attract federal funds and projects but where are our own federal projects in three and half years?  We often ignore our local politics and policies. We always artfully dodge local development agenda. We always enjoy the significance of Tip O’Neill’s immortal lines, ‘All politics is local’ without seeking to move from rhetoric to action – on the former U.S House Speaker’s words. I mean, we have all sinned on the front called, ‘Afghanistanism in journalism’.
 
The post on the debacle in Ondo is actually a metaphor to tell the gory tale in today’s Western Nigeria, we now call South West for the purpose of power and revenue sharing. All journalists from the organic Western region have similar lines to write about the five states in the underreported region, which used to harbour the once vibrant and influential Lagos-Ibadan axis of the Nigerian press. The axis is now history.  What happened to the roads to Apapa Ports In Lagos Chief Bode George once presided over? Whatever happened to the original Nigerian Tribune Pa Awolowo established and Daily Sketch S.L Akintola set up? What happened to the Development Agenda for Western Nigeria (DAWN) great document launched in Lagos with funfair in March 2012? What happened to the assets of the Oduduwa Group of Companies?  * This article being first of four parts of an article was first published on 28 October, 2018. Let’s reflect on the current points at issue in this first part reloaded… To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .