Provost, Shepherd University, West Virginia, Dr. Scott Beard (left); Nigerian Anti-Drug Abuse Ambassador and Founder, Silec initiatives, Sunny Irakpo, Assistant Provost, Dr.Virginia Hicks during the international visitors leadership exchange program of the U.S Department of State in combating drug addiction and the Opioid crisis. • Shepherd University offers scholarship to Nigerian students
A non-governmental organisation, Silec initiative has sought collaboration with a United States based institution to tackle the global drug abuse epidemic. Already, Silec founder and Nigeria’s anti drug abuse ambassador; Sunny Irakpo has met with the management of Shepherd University, West Virginia on how to effectively collaborate to address the menace. Irakpo at his meeting with the institution’s provost, Dr Scott Beard and his assistant, Dr. Virginia Hick expressed concern over the global epidemic, which he described as worrisome, saying for effective results, there is an urgent need for international collaboration and information sharing. And for Nigeria to optimally benefit from the collaboration, Irakpo sought a partnership arrangement with the university wherein the organisation will source for Nigerian students to study in the institution since the world is knowledge-driven. While thanking Irakpo for the confidence reposed in the institution, Dr Scott expressed the institution’s readiness to partner with Nigeria and Silec in this regard. Scott declared that any student that passes through the Silec enrolment process would be offered scholarship if qualified while the admission fee would be waived. Irakpo then enjoined students desirous of furthering their studies to take advantage of the opportunity to add value to their lives. The Silec boss was recently sponsored by the U.S government to participate in the visitor’s leadership exchange programme of the Department of State on how to combat drug addiction. Irakpo while addressing journalists in Lagos during the “Kick out drug abuse from Nigeria awareness creation football tournament recently organised as part of the organisation’s sensitisation programme to enlighten youths on the dangers of drug abuse lamented that the menace has destroyed lives of many promising youths in the society. He expressed appreciation to the U.S government for the privilege to represent Nigeria in the international leadership exchange programme. “For me, what I have learnt shall be implemented for the benefit of humanity because the latest information, strategies and contacts are very much handy with access to the United States for more effective collaborations. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .