 NEW YORK, NEW YORK – JUNE 01: Andy Ruiz Jr punches Anthony Joshua after their IBF/WBA/WBO heavyweight title fight at Madison Square Garden on June 01, 2019 in New York City.   Al Bello/Getty Images/AFP  Joshua, 29, was floored four times as Ruiz defied his underdog status to win in seven rounds at the Madison Square Garden. Obisia Nwankpa, one-time Nigeria’s most prized boxing asset, told The Guardian yesterday that there might be some secrets behind Joshua’s defeat, adding, “I think he lacked the power of secret science in boxing.” As a professional boxer, Obisia reigned at various times as national, continental and Commonwealth champion in the light welterweight category. The high point of his boxing career was in December 13, 1981, when he had a shot at the world title held by Saoul Mamby of the United States of America, but lost by 2-1 split decision. He told The Guardian that as a heavyweight champion, Anthony Joshua’s body should have grown beyond those punches that sent him to the floor on four occasions. “I have never seen such a terrible situation in my entire life as a boxer,” Obisia said. “I have taken my time to watch the fight over again, and I felt like crying. Look at Ruiz’s stature. He is so fat. I was surprised where his power came from. I didn’t see him as a boxer. From his body gravity, and how he threw those punches, I feel there was something we did not see.” Obisia continues: “In boxing, we don’t like talking about juju, but I must say that the way those punches reacted on Joshua’s body were not normal. I can defend it any time. Maybe, the truth will come out soon. There is a lot of politics in boxing, especially when it comes to the heavyweight category. The government is involved, and the fans are involved because as a heavyweight champion, you are the richest athlete in the world. Everybody wants to get into your shoe. Joshua is not ‘scientific’ in boxing, but he has the strength and power. And for you to remain a world champion, there must be ‘power of secret science’ in it,” he stated. Obisia added there was no problem in Joshua competing in the U.S. for the first time. He said, “For you to be a true champion, you have to fight anywhere in the world. But as I said, I didn’t see Ruiz as a boxer because of his stature.” With the victory, Ruiz now holds three of the four major belts, with another American, Deontay Wilder in possession of the other. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .