Many fans of embattled Nigerian singer, Naira Marley rejoiced when a Lagos court granted the singer bail some weeks ago. In an update to his bail situation, his management has given an update concerning the processing of his bail and according to them, the “Am I A Yahoo Boy” crooner is still in custody because they are waiting on the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, to verify those who have come forward as his sureties. Tony Orilade, Economic Financial Crimes Commission’s spokesman, in an exclusive chat with The Guardian said Naira Marley “was to be detained in Prison custody pending the fulfillment of the conditions.” “The EFCC will only meet with the defendant in court for his trial at the next adjourned date,” Orilade added. This is coming on the heels of the outspoken journalist, Kemi Olunloyo giving reasons why the singer is still in custody despite his bail granted by a court. She had said last week, “Lies! #AwonOde All the sureties are ready. Mine was level 10 too. They just need to be VERIFIED! It took 7 weeks to verify my sureties and process the bail I had to call out the Deputy court register Memunat Folami who sat on my files with every excuse. Google her name and Sahara Reporters. Same way Linda Ikeji told Punch she paid my Bail when I was “languishing” in prison. Know the facts! Bail April 10th, left June 5th. My 3rd arrest no sureties for 90 days. They were all scared I will flee the country as told by my fired lawyer Lawal. Aguma is dead, Robert is dead. Iyabo, God is coming to wrap you in his arms soon. Video is on my story. All of you ppl abusing @nairamarley may be NEXT. Prison will be your portion soon instead of fighting the system that’s scapegoating an innocent young man. Fake ACTIVISTS everywhere.” You would recall that Naira Marley was arrested in connection with internet fraud and his arrest came on the heels of his vocal support for internet fraudsters popularly known as yahoo boys. According to the singer, Yahoo boys are not criminals and should be prayed for because they make money circulate in the economy. He also released a controversial song, “Am I A Yahoo Boy” following his argument with fellow singer, Simi who criticsed the activities of Yahoo boys.