   The District Coordinator, Full Gospel Business Men’s Fellowship International (FGBMFI) Nigeria, South West District 3, Lagos, Fola Aguda, gave the charge at the unveiling of the 2019 yearly seminar of the Fellowship.He said as the world is changing, technology is also altering the face of business, and therefore it is imperative to understand the shifts that can help business leaders and employers progress and build modern and sustained businesses. He said the two-day seminar, holding June 7 and 8, and themed: “Imperatives for Building Modern Businesses,” and “Achieving Business Growth in Today’s Economy,” offers an opportunity for the public to take advantage of the resources available during the period. Aguda further disclosed that Professor of Economics, Lagos Business School (LBS), Pat Utomi, and Managing Director, Starteams, Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa, are among the resource persons that will provide participants guidance and strategies to compete favourably regardless of their industry at the seminar. He said the guest speakers will also explore new trends in businesses in the contemporary world. He recalled: “The CBN Governor recently informed that we are likely to enter another recession, and this calls for preparation, to build up the men with critical knowledge and expertise to weather the storm. This is the reason we tailored our topics to reflect on the activities in the market place. We have been doing this over the years, and we are glad is yielding positive fruits as we see our members diversifying, expanding and starting up new businesses,” he said. Chairman, Annual Business Seminar, Edward Eworo, added that the seminar will also examine the importance of leadership for start-ups and the running of small businesses, and exploring effective sales channels. It will also study the fundamentals of budgeting and financial planning, practical ways of preparing effectives business plans, scrutinize available funding sources and the impact of technology and innovation on achieving business growth. “We have selected very experienced experts, technocrats and practitioners to examine business process management to help achieve business growth in today’s economy,” he stressed.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .