An Iyaganku Chief Magistrates’ Court in Ibadan, yesterday ordered that four men accused of strangling a woman to death be remanded in Agodi Prison, pending legal advice. The Chief Magistrate, Emmanuel Idowu, who did not take the pleas of Dotun Ogunlade, 24; Mutiu Ayorinde, 32; Samuel Ayorinde, 34; and Kehinde Imole, 27, ordered the police to return the case file to the Oyo State Directorate of Public Prosecutions ( DPP). Idowu, thereafter, adjourned the case until July 23, for mention. The prosecutor, ASP Amos Adewale, told the court that the defendants allegedly conspired to commit the offence. Adewale said: “On May 29, at 10:00p.m., Ogunlade, Ayorinde and Imole allegedly caused the death of Mrs. Bosede Oguntunde, aged 25, by strangling her to death. “The deceased, a married woman from Ilorin, was alleged to have been a Facebook friend to Ogunlade, a prophet, who invited her to his Igboora residence over her marital problem. On her arrival at Ogunlade’s residence, he allegedly gave her an overdose of sleeping drugs and strangulated her to death; and later cut off her head, two hands and burnt them for money ritual,” said Adewale. Meanwhile, a 72-year-old prophet of Celestial Church of Christ in Ipaja area of Lagos State, Jacob Adegboyega Farinmade, has been arrested by the police for allegedly killing a female undergraduate, one Bunmi, whom he impregnated. According to reports, Bunmi was a student of Babcock University until 2014 when she was rusticated. Her father then took her to her mother, Derayo Omisibi’s house to stay for a while. Worried about the state of her daughter, Derayo went seeking for spiritual help. She took Bunmi to the cleric for spiritual cleansing. The cleansing required that Bunmi stayed in the church premises, where the clergyman and his over 10 wives also reside. Sources said the cleric took advantage of Bunmi’s stay in his church to lure her to bed and impregnated her. He kept her in his church for the duration of her pregnancy and stopped her from receiving any antenatal care. She died recently while trying to give birth to her baby. Instead of informing her mother about her demise, the pastor hurriedly buried her in a shallow grave inside the church premises and thereafter called the mother to inform her that Bunmi had died. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .