The recent introduction of Hollandia Evaporated Milk’s 120g-pack size, also referred to as Pere has been met with commendation from consumers. The new pack is being seen as an irresistible way to deliver wholesome nutritious evaporated milk in a distinctive packaging. At a N100 price point, the pack has a unique creamy taste and nourishing value in a convenient pack, tailored to fit specific consumer needs with quantity benefits and reasonably connects with an affordable price point. Across neighborhood shops and departmental stores, the pack has grown increasingly popular as more consumers consider it a favourite for its high quality, convenience and affordability, whenever they desire a creamy addition to their cup of tea, coffee, or meals. Mr. Oluseyi Adeniyi, a brand consultant with MarketingPlus said the Hollandia Evap was already a household name in Nigeria for its product quality, affordability and satisfaction. “The Hollandia Evap 120g pack is an innovative size that offers a good on-shelf presentation and delivers fresh appeal in addition to its creamy goodness. The pack’s increasing popularity is driven by consumer trends and desire for convenient portion size, more personal choice and affordability,” he said. For Ezekiel Usman, a student of University of Ibadan, Hollandia Evap is a creamy and highly nutritious milk. He noted that as students, it was imperative to settle for value adding products that are pocket friendly, and the new Pere pack fits the bill for his daily use. “Each day, I always take a hot cup of coffee or a bowl of cereal complemented with Hollandia Evap because of its freshness, creamy goodness and vital nourishment. Now with the N100 Pere pack, I am glad I still get the same great taste, nutrition and satisfaction at an affordable price,” he added. Chi Limited’s Managing Director, Mr. Roy Deepanjan, expressed delight on the feedback received so far from consumers. He stressed that the Hollandia Evap 120g Pere pack has captured consumer affection by being value maximizing and innovative.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .