Ogun Governor, Mr Dapo Abiodun Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun has appealed to Nigerians to continue to work and pray for the peace and unity of the nation. The governor, in a statement he personally signed to celebrate Eid-el-Fitri, called on Nigerians to focus on things that “bind us together and jettison the ones that are capable of dividing us.” He said: “Let us display the spirit of oneness and stay strong together regardless of the diverse difficulties and challenges so that we can achieve our goals. “I want to specially congratulate the entire Muslim community in Ogun State on the successful completion of the Ramadan fast. “The sacrifices you have all made during the holy month of Ramadan should draw everyone closer to the Almighty God. I enjoin all our Muslim brothers and sisters to draw enduring lessons from the holy month of Ramadan, which include personal sacrifices and self denial. “I want to also seize this medium to call on you all to emulate the good virtues and teachings of Prophet Muhammad.” “I would also like to appeal to our members of the Islamic faith to see beyond all artificial divisions, including minor ethnic and religious differences in society and abide strictly with the teachings of the Holy Koran as propagated by Holy Prophet Muhammad.” In a similar vein, eminent Lagosians, which include the Deputy Governor, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat; former Minister of State for Defence, Musiliu Obanikoro; Oba of Lagos, Rilwanu Akiolu 1, former Federal Commissioner for Works, Alhaji Femi Okunnu and others, have urged Nigerians and particularly citizens of Lagos State, to embrace peace and unity and adhere to issues that would accellerate the development of the nation rather than those that will divide us. Hamzat, who spoke at the Obalende praying-ground yesterday, said: “Everyone, irrespective of your religion, tribe or race, should love one another. Another essence of the month is for us to be godly and to understand that whatever act we do has impact on others. Obanikoro, on his part, said there are better days ahead of the country as it is certain that Nigeria would soon overcome her challenges. In another development, the Ansar-Ud-Deen Society of Nigeria has urged President Muhammadu Buhari, governors and other leaders to strengthen religious tolerance and peaceful co-existence among the citizens. National President of the group, Dr. Rafiu Ademola Sanni, who described governance as a serious business considering the pluralistic status of Nigeria, said: “The country has deviated from the vision of our founding-fathers and as such, requires tremendous efforts and will-power to re-direct the country to its rightful status in the comity of nations.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .