 Femi Gbajabiamila.  The Oba Akiolu made the plea when Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu led the Speaker and his deputy, Idris Wase, on a courtesy visit to the monarch at the weekend.He said he had “valid documents” to lay claim to the property, which he said, were taken during the military era and that some of them were dated back to 19th century. “We have a catalogue of requests from the Federal Government, from special status for the state to the return of all property belonging to Lagos government which were taken away by military fiat. We want the property to be returned to us,” he said.
Earlier, Sanwo-Olu while receiving the Speaker at the Lagos House, Ikeja, described the emergence of Gbajabiamila as Speaker of the House of Representatives as a great feat for the state. Gbajabiamila, who described his home-coming as very emotional, noted that Lagos is his home but Nigeria is his seat. He promised to be fair to every Nigerian in his administration of the House of Representatives. Meanwhile, wife of Lagos State Governor, Mrs. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, has expressed her readiness to collaborate with medical practitioners to play up health initiatives in various fields to the ultimate benefit of the people.In a statement, Mrs. Sanwo-Olu spoke at Lagos House in Alausa, Ikeja, when she received leadership and members of Lagos State Chapter of Medical Women Association who paid her a courtesy visit. She said she would be willing to further collaborate with the association in implementing more health initiatives to allow more people to benefit. According to her, “in the area of health screening, that is one thing that we really capitalise on, especially in the Medical Women Association. We did a lot during the campaign period too on cervical and breast cancer screening and let me use this opportunity to assure you that we would be willing to further partner to ensure that more people benefit in this regard.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .