Adeyinka Olumide-Fusika Adeyinka Patrick Olumide-Fusika (SAN) is the founder of Citipoint Chambers. He was born April 10, 1966 and earned his LL.B degree (with Honours) from the University of Ife in 1987. He obtained his B.L from the Nigeria Law School in 1988 and was subsequently called to the Nigerian Bar in November 1988. Olumide-Fusika also holds a postgraduate Degree in Philosophy from the University of Lagos.He is an astute advocate who has written articles and delivered lectures on different legal topics.He is a co-author of the book ‘A Cry For Justice’ (which documented and forensically analysed the evidential proceedings before the Presidential Commission of Inquiry into the July 10, 1999 murder of 5 students of the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife).He is a member of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Chairman, Professional Ethics & Disciplinary Committee, NBA, Ikeja Branch between 2008 and 2010; Member, Building Committee, FRA Williams Bar Centre, NBA Ikeja Branch (2009-2014); chairman, Electoral Committee, NBA Ikeja Branch (2010) and chairman, Gani Fawehinmi Memorial Annual Lecture; Organising Committee, NBA, Ikeja Branch between 2015 and 2016. A Lagos-based lawyer, Mr. Adeyinka Olumide-Fusika (SAN) bares his mind in this interview with YETUNDE AYOBAMI OJO on various challenges that impede the quick dispensation of justice among other current issues. Do you think the deposit of judgment sum with court registrars would mitigate the practice of obligors deliberately refusing to pay?
That is already a condition. Once judgment is given, the compliance with it becomes immediate. If it is money judgement, you have to pay it. If you are appealing, you must get good ground to show why you should not pay it before the decision of the appeal court. But usually, money judgments are kept with an independent person. If it is enforced, of course the person will not have the incentive to delay proceedings by refusing to pay. But in reality, what exist is different. A judgement is given against you, you file notice of appeal and bring motion for stay of execution of the judgment. If it is filed at the high court, the court will take proceedings on it. It is either you are granted stay of execution, permitted to keep the money on certain terms, ordered to pay it into a designated account pending the outcome of your appeal or it is refused. Those are the most likely occurrences at the trial court. Then most litigants and their lawyers take the same application again to court of appeal, once it is not an order that says, stay execution unconditionally. Once it is granted conditionally, the court would order the obligor to pay into interest yielding account. The Court of Appeal in recent years don’t take such applications anymore. Will the Supreme Court hear it? 
By mere filling it, you have obtained stay. That is what we are confronted with. I think we need to address it. When judgment sum is given, may be there should be rules that will simply state that anybody applying for stay, automatically should deposit the money. The party should accompany its application with a cheque drawn in the name of the court where the application is being made. But don’t get me wrong, there are meritorious occasions, where a person deserve stay of execution. It is the court that will look at it and determine whether to grant or not. And you cannot in effect grant it by refusing the application. As long as the application exists in the court record, the other side cannot enforce the order. The proper thing is to accompany the application of stay of execution with your draft. By so doing, you are demonstrating that it is not as if you do not have the To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .