The senior pastor of the Commonwealth of Zion Assembly (COZA) Pastor Biodun Fatoyinbo has denied raping Busola Dakolo or any other persons who claimed that he raped them. “I have never in my life raped anybody even as an unbeliever and I am absolutely innocent of this,” Fatoyinbo said in a statement posted to his Instagram page on Friday. Mrs Dakolo, who is the wife of a popular Nigerian singer, Timi Dakolo, alleged that Fatoyinbo raped her twice in an interview YNaija. The interview was published on YouTube on Friday. She said the two incidences happened in the same week. Read More: What We Learned From Busola Dakolo’s Interview Mrs Dakolo alleged that the pastor raped her for the first time at her parent’s home and at another time in a secluded road path. She said the incidents occurred before she turned 18 and added that she lost her virginity to him. “Fatoyinbo showed up at our house unannounced. It was a Monday morning early and I was still in my nightgown. My mother had travelled with my sisters and mum were absent at service the previous Sunday,” she alleged. “He didn’t say a word, forced me onto a chair, speaking only to command me to do as he said. It took me a while to come to terms with what was about to happen, and it was why I didn’t struggle or make a fuss when he pulled down my underwear and raped me.” She added that he did not say anything after, left to his car, returned with a bottle of Krest and forced her to drink its content. She said at this time, his wife had just given birth to their first child, Oluwashindara. The pastor, however, who confirmed that Mrs Dakolo was a member of his church in 1999, said the story is “fallacious, non-existence and which are all denied in every measure.” “We will also not stand for false criminal allegations against me or the church,” he added. This is not the first time that Fatoyinbo will be involved in sex-related scandals. In 2013, a former member of COZA Ese Walter said she had a sexual relationship with the married pastor in London. Although Walter said the relationship was consensual, she noted that she felt “abused and manipulated”.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .