 FCMB building  The winners emerged through a random selection of qualified customers held across the four regions and 19 zones that make up the bank’s footprint in Nigeria.In attendance were officials of the National Lottery Regulatory Commission, Consumer Protection Council, community leaders, thousands of customers of the financial institution and other dignitaries. The winners are Olabisi Omotayo (Lagos region); Mustapha Egba (Abuja and North region); Helen Okon (South-east and South-south region); and Sholanke Olalekan (South-west region).One of the winners, Mrs. Helen Okon, commended FCMB for its commitment to customers, adding: “I am very surprised to win N1million. It is unbelievable. I am very proud to be a customer of the bank and very grateful. Surely, it is going to change so many things for me”. The Executive Director, Retail Banking of the bank, Olu Akanmu, said: “We are delighted to get another set of millionaires and winners of other prizes in the first draws of the promo. Thousands of Nigerians have so far benefitted from this life-changing initiative since it commenced in 2013. “The Season 6 of the promo will produce another set of 16 millionaires. Thousands of other lucky customers will be rewarded with various exciting prizes. We will continue to reward and enhance the experience of our customers through this promo and other offerings, aimed at further empowering and adding value to them in line with our core values. “We are also committed to distinguish our offerings in the retail banking space by delivering exceptional products and services that would ultimately ensure the growth and achievement of the personal and business aspirations of our customers. All our customers need to do to win in the millionaire promo is to keep on saving with FCMB”.
 
“The industry, since that time, has grown slowly to cover about eight million people; which is still a wide gap given the country’s population of about 200 million. “Adoption has been growing slowly in the private sector, though not as we expected. It still needs to improve because it is important for every economy for the citizens to be healthy as good health is key to productivity,” he said.He noted that when we compared with other countries of similar economies, Nigeria was still falling behind, and that Ghana had made above 15 per cent adoption and South Africa about 20 per cent.
 
He, however, noted that, “Nigeria has a huge opportunity to improve health insurance beyond four per cent to almost 70 per cent because there is huge opportunity and potential for the health insurance adoption in Nigeria. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .