Frank Briggs (left); Wale Akoni (SAN); Chinyere Okorocha; Fola Akande; Mena Ajakpovi; Dr Adeoye Adefulu; Seni Adio (SAN); Justina Lewa; Okey Egbuchu; Ama Atuwewe and Anthony Nwaochei, all members of the Nigerian Bar Association Section on Business Law Chairman of the Nigeria Bar Association Section on Business Law (NBA-SBL), conference planning committee, Dr. Adeoye Adefulu has said that its 2019 conference would examine the role of legal practitioners and the opportunities for business growth in Nigeria. He said professional capacity development of lawyers would be central to the discussions at the event. Addressing newsmen jointly with members of his committee, council and executive members of NBA-SBL on Friday, Adefulu said: “The 2019 Conference will focus on our nation’s economy. This is a matter of great importance to the Federal Government of Nigeria, the private sector as well as investors. Conference sessions will examine the factors, steps and actions required to ensure economic growth and increase the rates of investment & employment in Nigeria.” The NBA-SBL is one of the specialist sections of the Nigerian Bar Association established to enhance the professional development of Nigerian commercial lawyers, influence government policy, engender and support law and policy reform in Nigeria and indeed Africa. According to him, the NBA-SBL is involved in the National Assembly Business Environment Roundtable, which is really about creating a better environment for businesses in Nigeria and the Presidential Initiative known as the PEBEC, which is also aimed at creating an enabling business environment in Nigeria. He explained that the chairman of the Section, Mr. Seni Adio (SAN) has been appointed as private sector Co-Chair of the Nigerian Coalition of Services Industry (NCSI) as well as member of the AfCFTA Presidential Committee for Impact and Readiness Assessment, which was inaugurated by President Muhammadu Buhari, on October 22, 2018. His words: “This is a direct consequence of our focus on the African Continental Free Trade Agreement at the 12th Annual Business Law Conference.” Conference vice chair, Mrs. Ozofu Ogemudia, who gave a breakdown of events scheduled to hold from June 26 to 28 at Eko Hotels and Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos said the rich faculty of speakers would include Prof. Kingsley Moghalu, Justice M. B Idris among others. She stated that there will be General Counsel and Senior In-House Lawyers event, scheduled to hold on Tuesday 25t, June 2019 with the theme, “Gaining Perspective: Shaping the Role of the African GC, adding that it would be organized in conjunction with International Lawyers for Lawyers Africa (ILFA) among other social events. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .