Coach Usman Abdallah. PHOTO: YouTube Coach Usman Abdallah of Enyimba International Football of Aba has said that all the clubs that have qualified for the final stage of the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) have the capacity to win the championship Play-offs, which begins on Tuesday at the Agege Stadium with three fixtures. Former champions, Enyimba will face Enugu Rangers in the opening fixture of Match Day One of the Super Six, while Kano Pillars will take on Akwa United in the second game. FC Ifeanyi Ubah will lock horns with the defending champions, Lobi Stars of Makurdi in the fixture of the day. Speaking to The Guardian, yesterday, on what to expect as the play-offs kick off on Tuesday, Abdallah said the route to winning the league would be a tough one as all the teams that made it there did so on merit. “Now that we are at the last stage of the season I think any of the six clubs in the championship playoffs is capable of winning it. Qualifying for the Super Six was not by chance, All the teams that are there did well enough to be there. “Every team, I believe is in top form and shape, so I envisage it is going to be a different scenario from the normal league matches. We are going to see very good football, probably for the first time,” he said. Abdallah, however, said Enyimba has been able to achieve some of its set targets for the season by bringing in some young players so as to have a team for the future. He added that reaching the Super Six play-offs was a compensation for hard work by the team. “As you know every club has its target for the season, we have ours too. At the beginning of the season, we tried to build a team by injecting of a lot of young players in order to guarantee continuity in the league. “Having qualified for the play-offs, the next thing for us is to play well enough to get a continental ticket for next season. At this moment, we need our fans’ support and prayers so that we can achieve our goal this season. Our supporters have been loyal to us and we appreciate them for it. I am confident we are going to make them proud,” he stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .