MTN •9mobile subscribers offered new proposition
Telecommunications firm, MTN Nigeria has launched 4G+ in Lagos, Abuja and Port-Harcourt. The enhanced service is aimed at delivering a premium experience to more people across the country. The South African owned company said yesterday, in Lagos that the 4G+ runs on 4G LTE advanced technology using a combination of the recently acquired 800 MHz spectrum and 2600 MHz spectrum from Visafone. The firm said the added spectrum and advanced technology extend the reach and capacity of MTN’s data network in Nigeria and enables speeds of up to 200 Mbps. This means a 30-minute HD video could take as little as three minutes to download on 4G+, while the same video would take around eight minutes to download on standard 4G. MTN informed that the service is immediately available and will deliver much higher broadband speeds, a more consistent connection and significant improvement in indoor coverage. Commenting on the new service, Chief Operating Officer, MTN Nigeria, MazenMroue, said: “It’s about the customer. We put the customer at the heart of everything that we do.” Noting that the launch of 4G+ represents a natural evolution from MTN’s already fast and reliable 4G network and further demonstrates the company’s commitment to continued investment in technology that caters to the present and future needs of its customers and country. “As MTN, we believe that everyone deserves the benefits of a modern connected life. With this enhancement, our customers in covered locations can expect faster downloads and uploads, and better browsing and streaming experiences. The successful launch of our 4G+ network is a momentous occasion, which advances our quest to provide world-class service to our customers,” he concluded. To activate the service and enjoy a new digital experience, customers need an MTN Standard 4G SIM (upgrades available in stores nationwide) and a compatible device. Meanwhile, 9mobile customers can now browse, stream and do much more with moreblaze. Speaking on the data service, Vice President, Marketing, 9mobile, AdebisiIdowu, said moreblaze makes internet access a pleasure to enjoy due to its swiftness and reliability in helping users meet their digital needs. He said, “moreblaze offers all categories of users fast and stable broadband service to enjoy a richer online experience while surfing the internet. Students can livestream online course content seamlessly without buffering; content creators, bloggers and small businesses that make a living online can also upload their content uninterrupted, by relying on the unrivaled experience that moreblaze offers.” Idowu stated further that 9mobile prioritises empowering customers with advanced technology in mobile broadband data that supports super-fast browsing and streaming experience, with the aim of enabling them to enjoy a lifestyle that is raised to the power of ‘more’. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .