 Chief Executive Officer of Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc, Dr. Demola Sogunle  Speaking at a ‘MoneyBee competition’ organised in partnership with Junior Achievement of Nigeria (JAN) in Lagos, Sogunle said the importance of financial literacy among students cannot be over emphasised.He said, “Make sure that you learn something new in financial literacy for your personal growth. At Stanbic IBTC, we have long identified education, a key pillar of our corporate social investment, as pivotal, along with financial literacy, to economic growth and development. Thus, we are always pleased to engage our future leaders to share financial literacy nuggets with them. He further shared four secrets of success that would help the students excel in life, which are: acquiring good education, discipline, volunteering and self-improvement. “Education is important, I know that at a young impressionable age, schooling or getting an education might seem like a difficult chore. Some people might even tell you that it is not important, believe me- it is. Education gives you a competitive chance in life and a good education can open you up to a life of ease. Take your education seriously and make learning a priority. “Education should not be limited to a schooling environment. Strive to learn from any environment you find yourself. Nothing you learn is wasted. On discipline, which he described as self-control, the bank chief said, ‘Discipline gives you the power to stick to your decisions and follow them through, without changing your mind. If you must do things out of habit, make sure that the habit is one that you have built deliberately, is progressive and not destructive.You should also identify good role models and learn from them. A good mentor will help you achieve your goals faster because you will learn from their previous mistakes. Speaking on volunteering, he advised the students to sign up and take every good opportunity even for free. “Volunteering / apprenticeship is a smart way to gain experience and learn life lessons. It opens you up to the realities of life and gives you an opportunity to build your network. Volunteering for a good cause boosts your resume and gives you confidence in what you would have achieved.” The Country Head, Human Capital, Stanbic IBTC Holdings plc, Funke Amobi stated that the essence of organising the programme is to up the skill of students in secondary schools on financial literacy. “We are doing this by quiz and competition, which is the way to test knowledge. This is the maiden edition and it will be an annual event About 23 schools participated in the competition and two schools, Heritage Global Academy, Lagos and Canterbury International High School, Lagos emerged joint winners. An educational trust account worth N100, 000 was given to each of the students who emerged first while third place winners were given education trust account of N50, 000.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .