• Court stops Damina, Ibrahim, APC rejects election
The Bauchi State Government has insisted that it only recognised Abubakar Suleiman as the only Speaker of the House of Assemnly having been elected by 11 members and sworn in last Thursday.Reacting to the development, Dr. Ladan Salihu, who is Spokesman to Governor Bala Mohammed, stated that the state government had nothing to do with the election of principal officers of House. He insisted that Governor Mohammed, who is a thorough democrat and parliamentarian knows the rules democratic engagements and as such did not meddle in the choice of leader of the legislature.He explained that he decided to speak on the matter because the House of Assembly had adjourned sitting and members have not yet appointed anyone as Spokesman. Salihu argued that Suleiman’s election was properly conducted, he was pronounced Speaker, and he made his acceptance speech, a process that was followed for his deputy, insisting that he (Suleiman) was duly elected and recognised by all parties even as he is a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC). However, a Bauchi State High Court has issued an interim injunction to Kawuwa Damina and Tukur Ibrahim to stop parading themselves as Speaker and Deputy Speaker of the Ninth Assembly.Justice Kafi Madaki ruled on an ex parte motion filed by 13 plaintiffs including Suleiman, his deputy, Danlami Ahmed Kawule and 11 other members. There were also 20 respondents comprising the House of Assembly, Attorney General of the state, Damina, Ibrahim and 16 other members of the House.Justice Madaki said: “I have considered the affidavit in support with its exhibits and written address, which learned counsel for the applicants as their oral submission in the matter and hereby grant the application as prayed.” He however adjourned the hearing to July 2, 2019.Meanwhile, the state APC has rejected Suleiman’s election as new Speaker by eleven out of 31 members of the House of Assembly, describing it as unethical and unprofessional conduct. State Secretary of the party, Bako Hussaini condemned the roles played by the Clerk of the House and security agents and urged anti-corruption agencies to investigate their conduct. While APC has 22 members, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has eight and the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) has a member. The 11 members who elected Suleiman comprised eight PDP members, two APC members and one NNPP members. He further said: “Our members elect being law abiding, expected that the Clerk who claimed to be a Lawyer, will ensure due process and fairness in handling the affairs of the House”.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .