 Police Intelligence Responses Team (IRT) have arrested six persons alleged to be members of a notorious land grabbing syndicate  It was gathered that three locally-made guns, one sledge hammer and a knife were recovered from the suspects who were identified as Ikechukwu Nomeh, Tochukwu Nnamani, Uchenna James, Victor Asigah, Agustin Tochukwu and Anthony Nwobodo, when the operatives raided their hideouts in Enugu State. Police sources revealed that the suspects, who were alleged to have been terrorizing residents of Emene-Nike area of the State for long time were alleged to have been in business of intimidating and dispossessing land owners of their properties within the area. They were said to have ran into trouble when they attempted to dispossess one Mrs. Ngozi Egbe, of her landed property and they demolished a section of her building under construction at gunpoint. A petition was written to the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, alerting over the activities of the land grabbers and he deployed his operatives at the IRT to arrest and bring the suspects to book. It was learnt that all the suspects were rounded up and all their operational rifles recovered, but the suspects confessed that they were paid the sum of N100,000 by their leader who they identified as Chief Nomeh, to demolish the building. One of the suspects, Tochukwu Nnamani, a native of Nkanu Local Government area of Enugu State, said: “Chief Nomeh consulted me that he needed my assistance that someone has encroached into his land while the matter was still in court. He begged me to get some boys to help him demolish the building. Then I met Uchenna James, we then had a meeting and I told him about what was going on and he said he would need N70,000 to demolish the house. I took him to the house, collected N100,000 from chief and I gave him the N70,000 and the house was demolished. I do not know the boys that went for the job.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .