For several weeks now, fans and the media have been speculating about the identity of the new man in talk show host, Wendy Williams’s life and now we can finally tell you who he is. Williams is dating 27-year-old Marc Tomblin who reportedly has a criminal past (aggravated robbery). The North Carolina native was convicted of robbery with a dangerous weapon and breaking and entering in 2013, according to court documents obtained by Bossip. He committed the crimes within days of each other. Williams romance with Tomblin who is a financial investor and blogger is coming amid her divorce from Kevin Hunter whom she was married to for 22-years and has a son with. Williams announced her separation from Hunter after he had a baby with his fitness trainer Sharina Hudson some months ago and Hunter is set to receive the sum of $10million dollars from her as their divorce case continues. A video of Williams and Tomblin has surfaced on social media showing the new lovebirds walking the streets as they made their way to grab dinner at Nobu. “I do what I want”- Wendy Williams says as her new boo is unveiled – Marc Tomblin, a 27 year old with a criminal past(aggravated robbery). She met him in LA and flew him over to NYC and has been splurging in him : @TMZ pic.twitter.com/KEp7VHsbmk — Laila Ijeoma (@LailaIjeoma) June 12, 2019  Williams first teased the coupling on Monday, posting a photo of herself lounging by a pool, holding hands with Tomblin, whose face was not visible in the shot. “Last night was the most beautiful sunset in Sherman Oaks with special people. Thank you, California! You’ve won me over! I’ll be back for the Hip Hop Festival in August!” she wrote. Williams labelled her companion a “very sexy man” in a hashtag, adding in another that she’s “old enough to be your mother.” It is gathered they met in Los Angeles and Williams flew him over to New York City and has been splurging on him. When asked about her relationship with the youngster, the talk show host said: “I do what I want”. On The Wendy Williams Show last month, the host opened up about the next stage of her life, telling the audience she’s “working on my divorce pleasantly.” “I am a single woman, running around New York,” she said. “I go out a lot, I’m a good time girl, I like to have fun. I don’t have a boyfriend, but I must admit I am rediscovering my love of men,” she added. “I do date and I date pretty often.”