The health benefits of water cannot be overemphasised and while water is very good and essential to the body’s general wellbeing, it is also understandable that too much of everything is not good for anyone. Most of us could stand to drink more water—but there is too much of a good thing. Many of us look out for signs of dehydration but overhydration can equally be as dangerous to the body. Too much water drinking can result in water intoxication, also known as hyponatremia, causing the inside of cells to flood due to abnormally low sodium levels in your bloodstream. In severe cases, water intoxication can lead to debilitating health problems such as seizures, coma, and even death. Here are seven signs you are drinking too much water and you need to put a check to it. Headaches are both a sign of overhydration and dehydration, similar to nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea. When you drink too much water, your brain actually grows in size and presses against the skull. This added pressure can cause a throbbing headache and more serious health problems such as brain impairment and trouble breathing. If you notice that you cannot leave your house without a water bottle and constantly find yourself depending on it throughout the day, then you are drinking too much water. You should be able to gauge when your body needs water when you feel thirsty because that is the way the body is programmed to fight dehydration. Thirst is every body’s individual monitor that lets them know if they need more. The more water you need, the thirstier you get. Drinking too much water can cause noticeable swelling or discoloration of the hands, lips, and feet. Those who drink too much water may gain weight suddenly, due to swelling and excess water in the bloodstream. Contrary to popular belief that clear urine is a sign of healthy hydration, having urine with no pigmentation at all may be a sign that you’re drinking too much water. Ideally, your urine should be straw-colored to transparent yellow if you are drinking a healthy dose of water. If you find yourself waking up in the middle of the night to use the bathroom often, then it may be your body’s way of telling you that you are drinking too much water. If you find yourself urinating more than ten times a day, you may be drinking more water than your body needs. When you drink too much water, your electrolyte levels drop and that balance is compromised. Low electrolyte levels can cause a number of unpleasant symptoms, including muscle spasms and cramping.