The four quarterfinal matches scheduled for the 11th day were cancelled because of the downpour that soaked the courts at the French Open. On Philippe-Chatrier Court, Simona Halep and American Amanda Anisimova were to open the day’s actions after which Novak Djokovic was to take on Alexander Zverev. On Suzanne-Lenglen Court, America’s Madison Keys was to take on Australia’s Ashleigh Barty to have been followed by Austria’s Dominic Thiem against Russia’s Karen Khachanov.
After shifting the starting times twice, the   Tournament Referee pronounced the cancellation of all matches. Holders of tickets would receive full refunds and were eligible for free admission to the grounds and could enter the two main bowls subject to seat availability. In the men’s draw, Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer are already through to the semifinals. While their quarterfinal matches were a continuation of rivalries over decades, the remaining quarterfinal match-ups involve young players, except for Novak Djokovic. The 32-year old world number one and top seed had played only four career matches with the 22-year old Zverev ranked fifth in the world. All their previous matches were settled in straight sets.  Zverev won their first encounter 6/4, 6/3 in the finals of the 2017 Rome Masters played on clay courts. Djokovic won their semi-final match 6/2, 6/1 on the hard courts of the 2018 Shanghai Masters. The German star won the finals of the 2018 Nitto ATP Finals 6/4, 6/3 on the indoor hard courts, after Djokovic had won 6/4, 6/1 in the round-robin of the same event. Dominic Thiem and Karen Khachanov had met only once before. The 23-year old Russian, ranked 11th in the world, defeated the 25-year Austrian 6/4, 6/1 in the semi-finals of the ATP Paris Masters played on indoor hard-courts.
The winners of the two matches would square off in the semi-finals in the upper half of the draw. The other semifinalists, Nadal and Federer are in the lower half of the draw. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .