APC National Leader Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu (right) exchanging greetings with Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, during the governor’s visit to his residence in Abuja…yesterday • Seeks Support Of Assembly As Obasa Re-Emerges Speaker
• Ogun Sets Up Committee To Review Appointments, Promotion Of Obas Just days after assuming office as governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu yesterday confessed that he has started losing weight as a result of the enormity and pressing demands of the office. He told state house correspondents at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, that the challenges are real and it’s not a tea party. “I dare say that I have lost weight and probably will loose a little bit more but I think it’s what the job entails.” On the determination of his administration to address the nagging gridlock in Apapa, Sanwo-Olu said it’s a work in progress. Responding on the regional efforts to check kidnapping and banditry in the South West, he said it’s also a work in progress. On yesterday’s security meeting with the President, he said, “Security is everybody’s businesses but as a governor we also have a major responsibility to ensure that as number one security officers of the state, security of lives and properties is paramount. Immediate past Speaker, Mudashiru Obasa has been re-elected speaker of the 9th Lagos Assembly. The election took place immediately after Lagos State Governor, Sanwo-Olu who was represented by his deputy, Obafemi Hamzat, read the proclamation of the 9th Assembly. Obasa was returned unopposed, as he remained the only nominated candidate at the close of nomination. Returning former principal officers include, Wasiu Eshilokun-Sanni as deputy speaker; Sanai Agunbiade Majority Leader; Chief Whip, Rotimi Abiru; Deputy Majority Leader, Olumuyiwa Jimoh; the only new principal officer is the Deputy Chief Whip, Mosunmola Sangodara who took over from the outgoing deputy chief whip. Meanwhile, Ogun State Government yesterday set up a committee to review appointments, installations and promotions of traditional rulers made by the immediate past Governor, Ibikunle Amosun at the tail end of his administration. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the State Governor, Kunle Somorin in Abeokuta yesterday named the committee members as, Oba Kehinde Olugbenle, (chairman), Oba Yinusa Adekoya, Oba Adewale Osiberu and Chief Yinka Kufile. Others are, Babajide Oyeti and Lanre Osota, Permanent Secretary Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs (secretary).  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .