 Prince Dapo Abiodun of Ogun state. Photo/Twitter/dabiodunMFR  Several weeks ago, I called him on telephone to congratulate him for a well fought electoral battle and for his eventual success. 
 
As he resumes work this week this is to publicly wish him a very successful tenure.  It did not quite ignite the flames I thought it would even though the genuineness of my effort has become a foundation upon which a future, firmer political structure can, and probably will still, be built. 
  
In Ogun State, from the vibrations I feel around the State, there is great excitement at the prospect of a new kind of government in the State, one that got there after passing through the crucible of fire. No one passes through such fire without coming out either badly burnt or well refined by it. People are praying this one is a refinement, to take them far away from the debris of the last election, away from the resultant hatred and division strewn all over the State, into a new dawn under a new kind of leadership.
 
I am one of such persons hoping that things would be done differently, and priorities shall address the simple, clear, uncomplicated and inexpensive needs of the people of the State.
 
If I were the governor everyone knows what I would have used the power of sports to achieve in the next 4 years.
 
My plan will be simple, practical, clear and easily understood by the people whose active participation will be the active ingredient that will make the whole enterprise work and succeed. 
 
Our common vision is the emergence of a State that will be the best and safest place in Nigeria to live and work. Ogun State can be that State, a model created to birth a new environment that will house a new Black civilization in the world, restoring the dignity, pride, and culture of the Black person on earth in response to the global crisis of nationalism that has engulfed the world. 
 
I urge the governor to take a little time to study what Sport, and that whole additional industry in leisure, the arts, culture, tourism, etc, can do to transform Ogun State into the place of his own dreams too. It can be done. 
 
Once again I congratulate him and wish him well. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .