The accident scene Three injured in Lagos building collapse
A multiple auto crash, which occurred on Wednesday night on the Lagos-Ibadan expressway, has left eight persons dead, with 12 others severely injured. Among those who lost their lives were a woman and her child. The accident, which occurred around Danco Petrol Station, Sagamu, on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway at exactly 7:56p.m., involved seven vehicles: two white Toyota Hummer buses with registration numbers-LSR 560 XJ and XD 792 EZA; a white DAR Truck-LND 04 XX; a Toyota Corolla – APP 196 BQ; a red fuel tanker – DED 776 XA; a white fuel tanker – APP 248 XT and a Toyota Siena SUV – ABC 512 ZV. The Guardian learnt that six male, one female and a male child were killed in the crash, while a total of 43 passengers, comprising 38 males and five female were involved. While eight were confirmed dead, a 12 persons – seven males and five females were injured. Ogun State Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Clement Oladele, said the injured victims were evacuated to the Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital (OOUTH) Sagamu and FAMBIS Hospital, Mowe. “The bodies were deposited at the Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital (OOUTH) Mortuary, Sagamu.” While commiserating with the victims, Oladele advised the public whose relatives travelled during this period to contact the FRSC commands in either Sagamu or Mowe or approach the two hospitals the victims were taken to. He said the FRSC has commenced crash investigation into the unfortunate incident, which preliminary investigation suspected to be caused by excessive speed and recklessness, which led to a container falling on two commuter buses and other vehicles loosing control and rammed into each other. He, therefore, advised motorists to note that the entire stretch of the Lagos -Ibadan Expressway is still undergoing rehabilitation. “Motorists are therefore enjoined to observe the maximum speed of 50km per hour in compliance with the National Road Traffic Regulations, 2004.” In another development, three persons suspected to be artisans on Thursday sustained injuries after a building under construction collapsed in Lagos. The incident occurred at Kayode Aluko Olokun Close, Shangisha in Magodo area of the state. It was gathered the storey-building was at plastering stage when it caved in at about 3:00p.m. while it rained yesterday. The three men who were trapped underneath the rubble were said to have been among those plastering the house at the time of the incident. Operatives of the state Rapid Response Squad (RRS) responded to the distress and extricated the victims from the debris. While two of them were said to have sustained serious injuries, the third victim’s condition was said to be stable. The RRS operatives also cordoned off the area. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .