 Former President Goodluck Jonathan.  The question as to which of them should have the final say in Bayelsa State PDP has become part of the odds facing party faithful in the state due to the fact that not only was the former president a former governor, he was actually instrumental to Governor Dickson’s political progression to the position of governor.
  
By 2020, the incumbent governor would be bowing out of office after serving his constitutional two terms of four years each. Like other of his colleagues, Dickson is said to be scratching his head about how to enthrone his preferred candidate as successor.  There are many PDP stalwarts in the state that suffered from one form of disadvantage or another in the course of building the party in the state, but one man whose political progression was hurt the most for the sake of Jonathan’s and Dickson’s interest is the erstwhile Managing Director and Chief Executive of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Ndutimi Alaibe.
   
Appointed by former president Olusegun Obasanjo, the ex-NDDC boss was asked to forgo his gubernatorial ambition to allow Dr. Diepreye Alameseigha to get a second term in 2003; just as in 2007 he was enjoined to step aside for Alamieyeseigha’s deputy, Jonathan to contest the governorship on PDP ticket. Even after Jonathan has been tagged as presidential running mate of former Katsina State governor, Alhaji Umaru Musa Yar’Adua. It still wasn’t a clear coast for Alaibe. In the high-wire intrigues that ensued, Mr. Timipre Sylva was sourced from a distance in the then political equation of Bayelsa State to fly the PDP ticket in 2007.
  
After Jonathan succeeded Yar’Adua as president, Alaibe was assured of the governorship ticket, but was yet again disappointed following Jonathan’s decision to conscript Dickson from the House of Representatives into the governorship.
  
Sources said that but for the decision to displace Alaibe from LP, he would have trounced Dickson in the 2011 gubernatorial poll. The consequent disqualification of the former NDDC MD by PDP punctured his 2011 governorship ambition. Therefore, pained by those serial disappointments, Alaibe moved over to the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the 2015 election cycle.
  
Based on the goings on in the state chapter of APC, most party faithful take it for granted that the 2015 governorship candidate of the party, Timipre Sylva would fly the APC flag in the November 16 governorship poll.
  
It is perhaps against the background of that possibility that close associates of former president Jonathan believe that the best bet for PDP is to field a battle-tested and popular candidate in the stamp of Alaibe to square up with Sylva, who is also a former governor of the state.
  
Jonathan’s loyalists say he is more inclined to having Timi Alaibe as the standard bearer of PDP not only to indemnify the former NDDC chairman of past political wrongs, but most importantly “for his popularity, name recognition and acceptability across the entire Bayelsa.”  February 23 caveat
WHAT happened in Bayelsa during the February 23 Presidential and National Assembly elections could be a potent warning to the likelihood of APC’s surprise emergence in the state. Unlike in neighbouring Rivers State, where Governor Nyesom Wike deployed his wealth of political experience to resist the invading federal might, Dickson could not protect his flanks, particularly Bayelsa Central Senatorial district, during the election despite his boast that “no federal might can reverse the will of the people to safeguard the state against the might of APC.”
  
The loss of two federal constituencies to APC in the February 23 poll was not only shocking, it signaled the great potential of APC to dent PDP’s 20 years control of the state in the forthcoming gubernatorial election.  Barigha-Amange pushed back attempts to rope Jonathan into his defection, stressing that his resignation from PDP was not only voluntary, but also as a “complaint against the undemocratic primaries.” Way out
ALTHOUGH Governor Dickson set up what he called “stock-taking committees” to unravel the roles played by some leaders and appointees during the recent election, the only option for PDP if it is serious about retaining the state is to hold a transparent, credible, free and fair governorship primary.
  
The governor, who has declared that he would hand over to another PDP governor in 2020, should learn from the mistakes of his colleagues in Gombe, Imo, Ogun, Oyo and Zamfara States by allowing the popular candidate fly PDP’s flag in the November 16 gubernatorial poll. Anything to the contrary could open up the party to recriminations, anti-party activities and possible protest votes in the election. Most importantly, stakeholders say the governor should recognise indeed and in fact that he has elders of the party to defer to in the interest of peace and progress of Bayelsa State.
  
Having fought a good fight to retain the state for PDP, Dickson should play the statesman and not try to upend the cohesion in the state through his political interests. If indeed he is determined to retire to the Senate as speculations have it, he had better wait for 2023 and not try to swap positions with a senator as happened in Gombe. Voters know when they are being taken for granted and therefore more inclined to resist such shenanigans.
  
Some of the political actors in the state under different dispensation, including Timi Alaibe, Kenebi Okoko, Franklin Erepamo Osaisai, Reuben Okoya and Godknows Igali, who want to test their popularity at the poll should be allowed to face PDP stakeholders, because any attempt at imposition could spell doom for a party that gifted Bayelsa a Nigerian president. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .