Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has urged members of Association of Handset, Hardware and Software Repairer of Nigeria (AHHSRON), to register with relevant government agencies and obtain operating licences for their businesses. NCC, in a statement, said this was as a result of investigations carried out by the zonal office, which revealed the existence of such group in the South West zone of the country. It said the zonal Office then invited the leadership of the association to a formal meeting for discussions on the need to collaborate towards effective governance of the telecom sector. Yomi Arowosafe, controller of Ibadan Zonal Office of NCC, told members of the association that the discussion had become necessary in keeping with the spirit of the last item of the eight-point agenda of the management of the commission, which focuses on ensuring regulatory excellence and operational efficiency. According to him, this requires the adoption of laid down regulatory framework, efficient processes, strict compliance monitoring and enforcement. At the meeting held in Ibadan, Arowosafe told members of the association the key functions, mandate and powers of the commission and seized the opportunity to educate them on the imperative of regularising their businesses and obtaining appropriate licences in that regard. In his response, Edowaye Eboigbe, chairman of the Association, stated that the association had over 6,000 members in Oyo State and gave an outline of the challenges facing the association, which he said included incessant arrest and molestation of members by officers of the Nigeria Police Force in the state. Arowosafe reiterated the need for all members of the association to regularise their operations, obtain requisite licences and carry out their business activities within the framework of the law to avoid arrest or molestation as stated. He advised the leadership of AHHSRON to ensure it familiarised itself with NCC’s Type Approval regulation and the draft regulation on e-waste disposal for ICT devices.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .