Chelsea’s Italian head coach Maurizio Sarri gestures on the touchline during the UEFA Europa League round of 32, 2nd leg football match between Chelsea and Malmo at Stamford Bridge in London on February 21, 2019. (Photo by Daniel LEAL-OLIVAS / AFP) Chelsea Sunday officially confirmed that manager Maurizio Sarri is leaving the club to join Italian giants Juventus. ‘Maurizio leaves Chelsea with thanks from us all for the work he and his assistants did during the season he spent as our head coach, and for winning the Europa League, guiding us to another cup final and a third-place finish in the Premier League,” Chelsea director Marina Granovskaia told Chelsea FC website. Granovskaia said Sarri “strongly” desired to return to his native country and wants to move closer to “his family, and for the well-being of his elderly parents he felt he needed to live closer to them at this point.” “We would also like to congratulate him on securing the role as big as any in Serie A and to wish him the best of luck for the future,” Granovskaia added. Sarri moved to Chelsea last summer, joining from Napoli, and his Chelsea side made a strong start to the Premier League campaign. He won his first five games in Chelsea and went unbeaten in all competitions from the start of the league season until late November when they were defeated by Tottenham at Wembley. Progression from the group stage of the Europa League was comfortable and a home Premier League win against eventual champions Manchester City a highlight in December. Sarri returned Chelsea back to the Champions League football by finishing third on the Premier League table and also clinched the European League Cup. Chelsea defeated Arsenal 4 – 1 in the finals. Chelsea also made it to the Carabao Cup final were they were defeated in a penalty shoot-out by Manchester City Sarri achieved this while implementing a new style of play and a change in formation which was spoken of favourably by members of the squad.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .