Nwajiuba Chieftains of the All Progressives Congress (APC) from the South East geopolitical zone yesterday rose from an emergency meeting adopting Emeka Nwajiuba as their preferred choice for the seat of the Speaker of the House of Representatives. The chieftains who met with the National Chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole, behind closed doors at the national secretariat of the party in Abuja argued that ceding the seat to the South East would enhance peace and help contain all forms of restiveness in the region. Spokesman of the group, Kingsley Ononuju, called for concerted efforts from stakeholders, including well-meaning members of the House of Representatives to achieve the goal. Recalling the exclusion of South East in the first tenure of President Muhammadu Buhari, the group noted: “The last time the South East headed any organ of government was during the administration of former President Olusegun Obasanjo, and that brought stability in governance, peace and progress, especially with the sterling performance of the likes of Senators Ken Nnamani, Anyim Pius Anyim etc. “In 2019, we must be present at the Nigerian pinnacle of power. For this reason, we call on all the governors, elected members of the National Assembly from the South East zone and other major stakeholders from the area to come together, pool resources, so as to give this effort the necessary impetus. “At this point, we are asking: Is South East part of Nigeria? That pertinent question must be answered this time with the emergence of Speaker of the House of Representatives from the South East geopolitical zone.” The group thereby threw their weight behind Nwajiuba, describing him as a detribalised Nigerian who would live up to expectations of Nigerians as Speaker. “He is a man of integrity with effective political structure both in the North and South. He is a proficient team player, humble and dedicated. “Nwajiuba is also eminently qualified and favourably disposed to rendering service, unifying and building a better Nigeria by working harmoniously with the executive. His goal is to give real meaning to governance through dynamic legislative service. He has emerged and we have to support him. The entire South East including the caucus in the House of Representatives should rally round and make sure that he succeeds.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .