You don’t love music festivals? We do and you should as well! From the heavy music blast to the crowd heaving and your body producing excess sweat, the elation is indescribable because that is how awesome the power of music is. Yes, you heard it here, nothing beats the singular experience of a music festival. There is something about music festivals and considering music festival season is upon us, we have gathered a list of the top five musical festivals from around the world so you can pull out the glitter and enjoy. Glastonbury festival | Photo – Pinterest When it comes to music festivals worldwide, Glastonbury has hosted the world’s biggest music names on its famous Pyramid Stage. From the immersive world of shenanigans that is Shangri-La to the flame-throwing Arcadia spider and the hidden, underground Piano Bar, every corner of Glastonbury is full of surprises just waiting to be discovered. This year’s Glastonbury is expected to hold in Pilton, the UK between June 26-30. Essence festival | Photo – Billboard With 25 years under its belt, Essence is considered the largest music festival of African-American culture in the United States. It has been headlined by black music heavyweights like Diana Ross, Solange, Prince, Lionel Richie, and Mary J. Blige. Featuring luminaries such as Prince and Lionel Richie, the 2017 event will headline with Dianna Ross, Solange and Mary J. Bilge. Coachella Music and Arts festival | Photo – Getty Images Coachella needs no introduction so there is nothing new we can tell you about it that you don’t already know. Coachella is many things wrapped in one, from fashion, A-list music, giant art structures and super grammable moments. This year’s Coachella held between 12-14 and 19-21 of April in Indio California and was headlined by Grammy award-winning Ariana Grande. Coachella is also one of the most profitable, grossing $94.2 million in 2016 and is now a well-respected staple of the mega-festival scene. Szigest festival | Photo – Facebook When a music festival has its own island, then you need to understand that it is a big festival. Szigest holds for one week on Obuda Island between Buda and Pest. The festival boasts of the biggest music names across all genres and the festival is the real life, 3D equivalent of your favourite streaming service. This year’s Szigest festival is slated to hold in Budapest, Hungary between 7-13 August. Rock in Rio festival | photo – Alexandre Macieira Riotur This music festival holds in South America and has had the likes of Katy Perry, Rihanna, Queen, Metallica, Rod Stewart, and Elton John, Lady Gaga, Justin Timberlake, Alicia Keys, Bon Jovi, and Guns n’ Roses, among much other play. The festival is also held in Madrid and Lisbon in the years the Brazil event is taking a break. The 2019 edition of Rock in Rio Brazil will be happening between September 27th-29th and October 3rd-6th.