Oduduru…made history recently by setting new records in the NCAA in USA NCAA double champion, Divine Oduduru, has announced that he is turning professional. “Your beginnings will seem humble, so prosperous will your future be.” Job 8:7 NIV Thank you , these last few years have been filled with opportunity & memories. Now I’ve decided to pursue my career at the professional level,” wrote on his social media page. The Texas Tech Junior won the 100m and 200m races at the NCAA championship at the Mike A. Myers Stadium in Austin, Texas, last week Friday. He led the men’s track team of Texas Tech to its first-ever national championship. His 9.86s equalled the World Leading time of 9.86s set by Christian Coleman and Noah Lyles. It was also the second fastest time ever recorded in the NCAA, just behind Coleman’s Collegiate Record of 9.82s. Oduduru’s 19.73 in the 200m also broke the championships record of 19.87 but trailed times raced by Michael Norman and Lyles this year. Divine Oduduru says Texas Tech feels more like home than where he grew up in Nigeria. Even though he announced going pro, he will still get his degree in December and train at Tech. #WreckEm @fox34 pic.twitter.com/8Z9SzZBtgY — Cassie Carlson (@cassiecarlsonTV) June 13, 2019  “I want to thank all of my teammates — from the sprinters to the jumpers to the throwers — for always believing in me and giving me so much support. I never felt like I was not at home here. “It has been so great being here at Tech, and now I’ve made up my mind that I want to go pursue my career. I’ll always be proud to say I am a Red Raider and a Tech student. Wherever I go to, I will be proud to say that.” Read More: Now’s the time for Divine Oduduru to go pro Oduduru became Nigeria and Africa’s second fastest man of all-time, just missing Olusoji Fasuba’s record by a hundredth of a second. "Your beginnings will seem humble, so prosperous will your future be." Job 8:7 NIV Thank you @TexasTechTF, these last few years have been filled with opportunity & memories. Now I've decided to pursue my career at the professional level. #MRINeverExperredIt  x #WreckEm pic.twitter.com/O5L6665aSl — Oduduru Divine Ejowvokoghene (@odudurudivine1) June 13, 2019  Oduduru’s coach, Wes Kitley, had on Tuesday hinted that Oduduru could announce that he is turning professional. Kitley told Lubbock Avalanche-Journal: “I’m going to encourage him to [go pro]. He’d turn down too much money. He can tweak his hamstring next year and get nothing. How are you going to turn down $350,000 for five years or $400,000 for five years or $500,000 for five years — two and a half million dollars? You can’t do it. Not in our world. Not in the track world. I mean, that’s a lot. He’s a sprinter, so he has an opportunity to get some of that bigger money.” Though the 22-year old announced he is going professional, he will still get his degree in December and train at Texas Tech. The Nigerian sprinter will race at the World Championships in Doha. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .