 Gov. Rochas Okorocha of Imo State. Photo/OwelleRochas/  The Emeka Ihedioha government pledged to reward whistle blowers willing to supply information that could result in the recovery of stolen public assets.  Briefing journalists yesterday in Owerri, Chairman of Recovery of Moveable Assets, Jasper Ndubuaku, accused the immediate past governor of leaving office with all cars in his convoy, including bullet proof Sports Utility Vehicle (SUVs) worth more than N100 million each as well as outrider machines and other automobiles. He also claimed that Okorocha’s wife, Nkechi, took away seven vehicles, including SUVs, worth N100 million each. Ndubuaku also alleged that his Aide Camp (ADC) left with five cars.He regretted that 90 per cent of the alleged looters complained of the vehicles getting involved in accidents. The committee chair equally flayed the outgone commissioners and officials for allegedly stealing vehicles and the government property in their care, asking that they should return them or face the wrath of the youths in the state. Ndubuaku pleaded with the media and the people to volunteer information that could aid the retrieval of the assets. But in a swift reaction, the ex-governor, through his Special Adviser (Media), Sam Onwuemeodo, asked the state government to publish the details of its claims. “Let them publish what they are claiming and we can now react,” he asserted.Besides, Okoroca boasted that the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) administration couldn’t surpass the achievements of the All Progressives Congress (APC) government he presided over in eight years even if it stays for 50 years in power. Onwuemeodo, in another statement, said his principal achieved a lot that were difficult to fault and match. The release read: “Before now, we had stated that sooner than later, Imo people would miss Owelle Rochas Okorocha as governor because he had governed the state with unbridled vision, passion and mission and had achieved a lot for the state, notwithstanding the hostility of the elite and godfathers in the state. “Owelle Okorocha ran a people-oriented government and in his administration, anybody could be appointed into any position not minding his background. But today, Governor Emeka Ihedioha has returned the government of the state to the elite and godfathers. And the government cannot fly. “Governor Ihedioha should also know that only his achievements would speak for him against Rochas Okorocha and not insults and blackmail. Imo people have seen Okorocha’s visible achievements and only counter-achievements by him would settle the matter. If the flyovers, the tunnels, the roads, the new universities and others Owelle built are not good, the governor should build his own. It is as simple as that.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .