 Healthcare  Alabi, the Project Director, Nigerian Healthcare Excellence Award (NHEA), made the assertion at the sixth Award in Lagos.It was organised by the Global Health Projects and Resources, in partnership with the Anadach Group on Saturday in Lagos. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Nigerian Healthcare Excellence Award is an annual event to celebrate distinguished personalities and organisations that have contributed immensely to the growth of health sector. NHEA started in 2014 and has since become a high profile event in the nation’s healthcare industry, gaining wide acceptance from stakeholders in the healthcare community, public and private sectors. NAN reports that Prof. Oladipo Akinkugbe, Dr Stella Okoli and Prof. Eyitayo Lambo, were given the 2019 Lifetime Achievement Recipient Awards, while about 120 health organisations were given 27 categories of awards. Alabi said that the three tiers of government and the private sectors could collaborate in different ways to improve primary, secondary and tertiary health institutions. “I believe our health institutions are gradually improving, but more investment from government can improve healthcare system. “This year’s award has really improved and more credible, because we have a forensic expert that looks at our process. “Over the years, the award had engendered more awareness on the quality and standard of services provided by various stakeholders in the industry. “This is our sixth year, and it has really been a successful award; this year award gave us the opportunity to bring Emeritus Prof. Oladipo Akinkugbe. “We are so proud to give him the Lifetime Achievement Recipient Award, and this is one of the biggest things that has ever happened to this award,” Alabi said. He said that the 2019 award tried to make it better by thriving on innovations and adopt change models in line with the international best practices to meet everybody expectations. “We are aspiring to be the benchmark for excellent healthcare service delivery in Nigeria and Africa in general. “NHEA is a unique forum that brings together key stakeholders and drivers of national and international trends, policies and solutions in the healthcare industry,” Alabi said. Also, Dr Anthony Omolola, the Chairman, Advisory Board of NHEA, said the award would create healthy rivalry and competition that would help healthcare system to move forward. Omolola said that healthy competition always generate improvement from every participant to encourage them to win next time. “The presence of our lifetime achievement recipient awardees signifies that we are moving forward, because the selection was based on credibility and commitment to healthcare system. “The choice of these three great people we are giving lifetime award today was carefully selected by jury and rectified by the advisory board. “For other categories that won different awards, it is due to their hard work and efforts to be excellent in healthcare system,” he said. Also, Prof. Abiodun Otegbayo, the Chief Medical Director, University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan, said that hardworking and efforts of members of staff, past and new leaders of the institutions made the institution to win the award. Otegbayo said that constant efforts of the hospital staff qualified it for the award of “Tertiary Healthcare Provider of the Year”. “I feel so excited that our institution won, and this is an encouragement for us to do better in delivering good healthcare services in the country. “Our university teaching hospital was established in 1957 as the first tertiary healthcare in this country. “But retaining that position has not been an easy thing, but we appreciate our past and present leaders in the institution for their constant push to move the hospital forward. “We will try to remain at the top and make sure we are a centre of training for medical manpower and provision of other health services,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .