 [FILES] UTME center  JAMB spokesperson, Fabian Benjamin, in a statement released in Abuja on Monday said “the board has further cleared and released the results of 15,490 candidates in this category.” Benjamin said the decision followed an expert review of the allegations against the candidates after they were asked to upload certain credentials for scrutiny. “At the end of the review exercise, the affected candidates were classified into five groups of candidates who have sufficiently proven innocence,” Benjamin said. According to Benjamin, he said the first category are those who have sufficiently proved their innocence while the second category was those with inconclusive evidence of culpability and was given the benefit of the doubt because of exam board policies. “Consequently, the results of categories (i)and (ii) were part of the 15,490 released on Saturday, 8th June 2019. They are to send RESULT to 55019 for their result,” he said. He said those category three were those whose upload of evidence necessitated further interrogation and have been notified and invited (through phone call, their profile, text message and email) to designated centres across the country for further clarification of the evidence against them. “It is in their interest to attend otherwise the evidence will be taken as conclusive,” he said. ”For category four, those whose culpability has been firmly established thus necessitating the cancellation of their results. A total of additional 321 results were therefore conclusively cancelled and the candidates are being notified,” he said. He said the fifth category is those who did not heed the advice to upload evidence of their identity vis-a-vis the other impersonators. ”They also have their results cancelled along with category (iv) above. Furthermore, four additional CBT centres were found culpable and were also delisted,” he said. He said it seems the resolve to block all loopholes for examination malpractice is being underestimated by examination cheats and other fraudulent characters. ”The Board will continue to deploy cutting-edge technology and also engage the services of globally-acclaimed experts to ensure that the sanctity of its examination is protected,” he said. The board registrar, Ishaq Oloyede, on May 11 said some results were withheld because investigations are still ongoing. “Today, we are releasing the results of 1,792,719 candidates. Some 34,120 results are being withheld including the results of 15,145 candidates being further clarified as identical twins and siblings,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .