Jamb Center Best candidate gets $40,000 Ghanaian scholarship
The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has released additional results of 15,490 candidates who wrote this year’s Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME). The board disclosed this yesterday in a statement signed by its Head of Media and Information, Dr. Fabian Benjamin. JAMB said it released the results after clearing the candidates of various examination infractions. According to it, “the release followed the expert review of the cases of the category of candidates who were requested to upload certain credentials for scrutiny.” It added that at the conclusion of the review exercise, candidates with different issues were classified into categories of those who have sufficiently proved their innocence and those with inconclusive evidence of culpability and were given the benefit of the doubt because of the guiding principles of the Board. “And others were in the category of those whose upload of evidence necessitated further interrogation, those whose culpability have been firmly established thereby necessitating the cancellation of their results. “A total of 321 results were therefore conclusively cancelled and the candidates duly notified,” he said. Benjamin said that the results were cancelled because the candidates failed to heed the advice to upload evidence of their identity vis-a-vis the other impersonators, which the board described as the incontrovertible evidence of their culpability. He said four additional CBT centres were found culpable and were also delisted. Meanwhile, the overall best candidate in this year’s UTME, Ekene Franklin Ezeunala, formally received his $40,000 presidential scholarship award from the representatives of the Academic City College, Ghana, at the weekend in Lagos. The scholarship presentation was witnessed by his mother, Mrs. Chinelo Ezeunala; a team from his school (Meiran Community Senior High School) led by the Vice Principal, Mrs. Toyin Ogunleye and Prof. Adewale Solarin, who runs the non-profit organisation, International Academy for the Gifted, which recommended him for the scholarship. Speaking during the presentation at the university’s Lagos office in Isolo, Senior Admissions Manager (Nigeria), Mrs. Ogechi Ekpe, said Ekene was not given the scholarship just because he scored 347 in the UTME – the highest in the country – but because he had been recommended by Prof. Solarin and competitions that identify and rank gifted children in Africa. Solarin, a professor of Algebra at the National Mathematical Centre, Abuja, said Ekene was recommended because he had been ranked as gifted. The expert said the student participated in international competitions like the American Mathematics Competitions (AMC) and Kangourou Sans Frontieres (KSF) Mathematics Competitions, which were done by children from about 120 countries. Besides, Senior Admissions Officer, Sandra Plangtok, said the $40,000 would cover Ekene’s tuition, feeding and transportation as well as $300 monthly stipends when the school is in session.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .