 DG NILS Dr. Ladi Hamalai. PHOTO: NAN  At that time, the National Assembly was the only arm of government that had no institutional memory to tap from. All the military regimes made sure the parliament did not exist, while the executive and judiciary continued to thrive. By 1999, it became clear that only the legislature did not have any background memory to draw from. It had no preexisting tradition to learn from, having been wiped off the collective governance history of the federation. PARP became the bureaucracy that helped the new parliament to gain quick knowledge in all aspects of legislative practice. To bring the new legislature at par with 21st century practice, PARP was furnished with up to date Information Communication Technology. Under the watch of Dr. Hamalai and PARP staff, the Parliament was furnished with hardware and hands-on tool kits for enhanced parliamentary experience. It was a quiet revolution that very few outside the parliament knew about.
 
With her rich background and relationship with the success story of NILDS, memories of her works and time would be hard to remove, especially given the fact that she invested a total of 16 years to initiate and build unique projects and programmes that have helped to bring value to Nigeria’s democracy and legislation.
  
Outgoing President of Senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki, who announced her retirement succinctly, described her eventful stay at NILDS (2004 to 2019) as a period of “meritorious service.” It could be said that Dr. Hamalai made NILDS what it has become given the fact that it was under her watch as Project Coordinator that the enabling statute that created the institute as knowledge-management organ of the National Assembly was passed into law in 2011.
  
Although it was in her second term as Director General that National Institute for Legislative Studies became National Institute for Legislative and Democratic Studies (NILDS) via an amendment of the establishment Act, Dr. Hamalai had used the greater part of her first term to win the confidence of international scholars and professors in the institute, which ultimately led to the affiliation with UNIBEN.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .