Senate President Ahmad Lawan presiding over the second plenary of the 9th Senate having been inaugurated on Tuesday, the 11th Of June, 2019. Photo/Twitter/nassnigeria Senate President Ahmad Lawan has sacked his special adviser on media and publicity Festus Adedayo 48 hours after his appointment. The termination of Adedayo appointment came after a section of All Progressives Congress (APC) members and loyalists of President Muhammadu Buhari raised objections to the appointment on grounds of Adedayo’s past criticisms of the Buhari administration. It was learnt that the intense criticisms by Buhari’s supporters in the APC put the Senate President in a fix and had to eventually bow to pressure. A paragraph statement signed by the Senate President’s Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mohammed Isa, tagged “Senate President Reviews Adedayo’s Appointment” reads: “The office of the President of the Senate has reviewed the appointment of Mr. Festus Adedayo as Special Adviser, Media and Publicity to the President of the Senate and decided to rescind its decision on the appointment, and wishes Mr. Adebayo the best in his future endeavours” No official reason was given for the sudden change of mind of the Senate President. On Wednesday, a group known as APC stakeholders Forum protested against Adedayo’s appointment by Lawan who equally retained Olu Onemola and Tope Olowoyeye, aides of Bukola Saraki, his predecessor. Speaking with journalists in Abuja on Thursday, Abu Andrew, forum’s spokesman, said the appointments are glaring reward to people who have insulted President Muhammadu Buhari. “When the senate president we all supported with our hearts and worked for wholeheartedly begins to compensate enemies of the government, those of the party and indeed those of the same President Buhari who endured insults for backing Senator Lawan for Senate President position; then the devil himself must be celebrated for doing a good job in turning a Senate President we brought in against us so soon and so fast,” Andrew said. “No doubt, the appointments are glaring reward for people who have not only insulted the person of President Muhammadu Buhari but also severally maligned the integrity of the office he occupies, “Even for supporting Senator Lawan to be senate president, these new appointees did not spare the president. “Now that senator Lawan has achieved his ambition, it’s disheartening to see that the very people he puts forward as beneficiaries of his new position are those who condemned and vilified those who supported him to attain the position in the first place.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .