Japan’s Naomi Osaka reacts as she plays against Czech Republic’s Katerina Siniakova during their women’s singles third round match on day seven of The Roland Garros 2019 French Open tennis tournament in Paris on June 1, 2019. Thomas SAMSON / AFP Katerine Siniakova of Czech Republic shocked the women’s draw with a 6/4; 6/2 victory on Suzanne Lenglen Court over tournament top seed, Naomi Osaka of Japan. This was a further decimation of the women’s draw following the ouster of second seed Karolina Pliskova the hard- hitter also from Czech Republic. Osaka had not had an easy path since coming to Roland Garros. In the first round, she lost the first set 6-0 to Anna Karolina Schmiedova and barely survived defeat before taking the second set tie break 7-4 and then rolling over her opponent 6/1 in the decider. In the second round, Osaka narrowly escaped defeat by Victoria Azarenka Belarus in another three-set match. In her match against Siniakova, Osaka was determined to halt that first set but she was denied a break in the second and sixth games. Then she faced two break points in the ninth game and cancelled then. On the third, however, she lost the game on a forehand error. Siniakova served out the set 6/4. In the second set, Osaka committed another forehand error to lose the fifth game and Siniakova consolidated to lead 4-2. The world number one lost her serve on a double fault in the seventh game. Seeming heart-broken, Osaka did not take a point off Siniakova serve for the match. The Czech and world number one doubles player won the match when an Osaka forehand sailed over the baseline. Siniakova is the defending doubles champion in Roland Garros but was reaching her first ever fourth round in a Grand Slam tournament. In the next round, she will take on American Madison Keys who defeated a qualifier, Anna Blinkova 6/3; 6/7 (5); 6/4, on Simone Mathieu Court. The defending champion, Simona Halep of Romania is the highest seed remaining in the women’s draw. She has a history-seeking Serena Williams to contend with. No matter who wins the title in Paris, Naomi Osaka will be replaced in the number one spot. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .