Sean “Diddy” Combs’ ex-girlfriend, Cassie is pregnant! The singer-model announced earlier today that she is expecting her first child, a baby girl, with boyfriend Alex Fine, a 26-year-old competitive bull rider and celebrity trainer. “Can’t wait to meet our baby girl,” the 32-year-old captioned a series of pictures on Instagram, which showed the couple in the car together. The dad-to-be also posted a “Letter to my Daughter” on social media which was another confirmation of the good news. “I will be the first man in your life and will show you the greatest love and affection now and forever,” he wrote on Instagram. “I never thought my heart could grow bigger after meeting your mother… then I found out we were having you and I instantly felt a love that is so indescribable.”   Letter to my Daughter I will be the first man in your life and will show you the greatest love and affection now and forever. I never thought my heart could grow bigger after meeting your mother… then I found out we were having you and I instantly felt a love that is so indescribable. I promise to be at every dance recital, concert, sporting event, school plays whatever you decide to do I will be there and support you. I am your number one fan I promise to be a man that you and your mother look up to and love. I will always listen and put the both of you first. I will show you a healthy relationship and how you deserve to be treated. I promise to never approve of any boy you like because they will never be good enough for my baby girl. Sorry I can’t promise that I won’t embarrass you because I will give you so many kisses at every school drop off. I will be the Dad that never forces my opinions on you. I will love whatever you do in life as long as you’re happy. I promise that I will be kind, sweet, and you will always be daddy’s little girl. I promise to love you every single second unconditionally until my last breath. You’re perfect to me and always will be A post shared by  Alex Fine (@alexfine44) on Jun 12, 2019 at 9:31pm PDT  The lovers made their relationship debut on social media in December when she shared a photo of them kissing at a Christmas party. Diddy and Cassie had split several months prior after dating on and off for reportedly more than a decade. It was also reported that Diddy felt betrayed by Cassie, as he believed she started dating Alex, a trainer he paid for, before their split.