There was pandemonium yesterday as a food seller, Mrs. Florence Imoh, 58, was electrocuted and found dead in front of her shop located at 12, Shosanya Street, Ijegun Road in Ikotun, a Lagos suburb in Igando/Ikotun Local Council Development Area (LCDA). Imoh was discovered by neighbours early on Monday morning lying dead in front of her shop. According to eyewitnesses, they hinted that Imoh’s death was due to a naked wire that supplied electricity from the pole that was linked to the building. The deceased neighbour, Mrs. Mercy Alomona, also narrated that she woke up to see the lifeless body of Imoh clinging to the metal gates of her shop at about 6:30a.m. She said: “Mama Chikodi as Imoh was fondly addressed, was trying to open the iron gate of her shop without noticing the contact and got electrocuted.” Another resident, Sodiq Bello, said there was faulty electrical wiring in the building where Imoh was killed. “We have searched for the cause of the death, and we noticed that a naked wire was resting on the metallic sides of the roof, which had transmitted to other metallic objects in the shop. “The building has an electrical defect. She was trying to come out from the shop when the incident happened. Mama Chikodi works and sleeps in the shop. She assists her younger sister in cooking and selling of food early in the morning.” The District Police Officer, Isheri/Osun Police Station, SP Rafiu Akinlade, hinted that the electricity in the axis had been switched off and the body of the deceased evacuated and taken to Isolo General Hospital mortuary. “We have been informed and I have called Ikeja Electric about the development, and they have switched off the electricity in the area; this is to allow us to evacuate Imoh’s body. I have also directed my officers to go to the scene of the event from where the body was evacuated.” He said the incident happened due to lack of insulator protection in the building, and was worsened by the rain. “If the building had an insulator, the insulator would have absorbed and protected the residents from any danger. Residents need to be careful and be vigilant, especially during and after rainfall. When it rains, it is advisable to avoid touching iron or metal object.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .