 Adams Oshiomhole, APC leader  Specifically, the APC is celebrating the emergence of its anointed candidates: Lawan (Senate President/Chairman of the National Assembly), Ovie Omo-Agege (Deputy Senate President), Femi Gbajabiamila (Speaker, House of Representatives) and Idris Wase (Deputy Speaker, House of Representatives)It described its candidates’ victory as triumph of democracy and party politics over the lawlessness of anti-democratic forces in the opposition. Also, the South East Professionals has insisted that yesterday’s outcome of the National Assembly leadership elections indicated that the region was not part of the country.In a statement issued in Enugu by its President, Obum Okafor, the group insisted that the claim of one Nigeria was a mere rhetoric. He stated that the outcome of the elections in both chambers of the National Assembly meant that Ndigbo were nowhere in the political and economic calculation of Nigeria, stressing: “This is the worst of it all.” “We are marginalised, dehumanised and segregated against in all ramifications. The worst part of it all is that Igbo remains the most disintegrated tribe in the history of Nigeria and they have continued to envy themselves.” The group lamented that elective positions in the country had continued to circulate between the North and West, leaving the South East in the minority, pointing out that the All Progressives Congress (APC) government has continued to show that it has nothing to do with Ndigbo. It, however, queried Senator Ike Ekweremadu’s rationale for joining the Deputy Senate President race at the last minute, saying the move exposed him as a greedy politician. Besides, the Oyo State APC has congratulated the winners on their victory.In a statement issued yesterday by the party’s Publicity Secretary in Ibadan, AbdulAzeez Olatunde challenged the new leadership of the Senate to assist the President Muhammadu Buhari-led executive to deliver on his next level agenda. However, Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, congratulated the newly elected presiding officers and members of the ninth National Assembly on their successful inauguration.He congratulated the winners on their emergence as principal officers of the National Assembly. In a statement issued in Asaba, Okowa commended the resilience and political sagacity of the newly elected presiding officers Meanwhile, Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu charged the newly elected leaders to put the nation’s interest above self.
Sanwo-Olu, who congratulated the new leadership, attributed their victory to focus, hard work, resilience and team spirit. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .