Vice President of Sales, EMEAI Western Digital, Nigel Edwards A global data infrastructure leader, Western Digital Corporation, has promised to increase the level of its investment in Nigeria, especially in the data segment of the economy. Western Digital Corporation, an American computer hard disk drive manufacturer and data storage company, said the new wave of investments would also include bringing to the market new range of data storage solutions. The firm said the new products that are coming into the market are would allow local consumers access a wide range of its brand products. Specifically, the firm said it will introduce the SanDisk Extreme microSDXC UHS-I card, the first 1TB card in the world; SanDisk Ultra Loop, and SanDisk Ultra Trek USB 3.0 all available in 32GB, 64GB and 128GB enhance efficient drive capacity and performance for customers in Nigeria. Each product was specifically tailored to address capacity needs and provide convenient, reliable storage solutions for customers. The portfolio also includes a wide variety of SanDisk external SSD and WD internal SSDs, including the new addition to the award-winning WD Blue solid state drive (SSD) portfolio, the WD Blue SN500 NVMe SSD. Vice President of Sales, EMEAI Western Digital, Nigel Edwards, said: “Western Digital creates environments for data to thrive. We help our customers capture, preserve, access and transform data. As a country with a significant percentage of digital savvy individuals, Nigeria is an important country for us. “We aim to create value to consumers and stakeholders by providing innovative storage solutions. The introduction of an extended product portfolio is a step in the right direction – as we continue to provide improved performance and efficiency for our customers. “We are offering new innovation to store and preserve data for today and beyond. With recent advancements in 3D NAND our journey of innovation continues to inspire those who dare to think big about the possibilities of data.” Director of Marketing, EMEA Western Digital, Gerry Edwards, said the new products would enhance diversification of the product offerings in Nigeria. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .