David Korede Facility management experts have advocated the need to deploy emerging innovative technologies as better tools to boost customer experience and improve business relationships. They argued that finding innovative ways to improve customer relationship was integral to the success of businesses, noting that businesses in Nigeria still face challenges in their approach to customer feedback, especially as the country parades the largest population in Africa. Executive Director, Eliezer Workplace Management, David Korede, speaking at a news conference in Lagos, said customer service in Nigeria, which was the most-talked about concept a couple of years ago, led to better customer relationship. According to him, such approach worked for those businesses across all sectors, but the deviation from the concept by some companies have caused bad customer experiences, which emerging innovative technology could help mitigate. He said: “One issue is the problem of data. Some industries still have no data and feedback policy and so have no means of measuring their customers’ satisfaction. It seems more like many industries, haven solved this issue, do not know the way forward, and the implementation and changes that need to be effected, so they keep gathering feedbacks yet do nothing with them.” Korede explained that with technology, businesses have changed and evolved in Nigeria, but customer service approach is yet to efficiently utilise technology in ensuring efficient use of customer feedback. He, however, recommended the use of technology, research, as well as innovative and creative measures to enable companies to achieve the desired result from data gathered from customer-feedback. Also speaking, Dele Olaniyi, a manager with a Lagos-based consulting firm, shared his experience with a customer service provider to a bank, affirming some challenges that could have been resolved using technology. He said the bank’s customercare service agent called him to ask of his service experience and what areas of improvement they needed to focus on to serve him better, which he took time to explain, only to get calls weeks later from the bank asking for the same thing. From a recent study, The Guardian observed that Olaniyi’s experience was not different from the experiences ordinary Nigerians encounter on a daily basis. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .