Group Head, Marketing, SPAR, John Goldsmith (left) with shortlisted kid actors Folorunsho Suliton; Opeyemi Olagunju; Annabel Ajaegba; Oreoluwa Ayorinde; Hannah Adaja and Artistic Director, RealTime Film Festival, Stanlee Ohikhuare (RTF) at the auditioning for young actors during the company Children’s Day celebration in Ilupeju, Lagos recently. To discover budding talents among Nigerian youths, SPAR a retail giant, in partnership with RealTime Films Festival (RTF) recently staged a Kids Audition Session at its outfit in Ilupeju. At the end of the session, five children were shortlisted and given the opportunity to hone their acting skills. Group Marketing Head, SPAR Nigeria, John Goldsmith said: “The future of the Nigerian society is in the way in which children are developed. At SPAR, we are always looking for ways to creatively engage children and hone their skills. The partnership will help us to bring to fruition the aspiration of various children that are interested in the movie industry.” Also speaking on the initiative, the Artistic Director, RTF, Stanlee Ohikhuare appreciated SPAR for partnering with his organisation in the development of children for the creative industry. He said: “During the auditioning, we were able to discover exceptional children in the areas of acting, monologue, dancing and singing. “Plans are already underway to feature the shortlisted children in a film alongside Nollywood a-list actors and other celebrities. The movie will be premiered at the cinemas and also during the upcoming film festival.” Also to celebrate youngsters and provide them with an unforgettable experience, SPAR hosted children to a party across various cities in the country to commemorate the Children’s Day celebration. The event took place simultaneously at the various premises of SPAR outlets nationwide. The event saw children engage in various games and other exciting competitions and all participants went home with various freebies, courtesy of SPAR. Other side attractions at the event include cartoon characters, bouncing castle, train ride, face painting, essay writing, balloon giveaway, free product sampling, amongst others. There were also family competitions such as dancing, SPAR Puzzle game, Pass the Parcel, Pin the Tail on the Donkey, Doughnut Challenge, Popcorn Dump Race, Balloon Pop, Kim’s Game, Musical Statues, Apple game and many more. The winners of all the various competitions went home with lots of goody bags and other consolation prizes.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .