Public school With belief that quality basic education is crucial to the wellbeing of the nation, Oando Foundation has assured that it will not relent in its effort to improve learning environment of public primary schools across the country.Programme Manager for the Foundation, Tonia Uduimoh, gave the assurance at the commissioning of learning facilities and sanitation projects in its adopted school, Bungha Gida Primary School, Mangu Local Government Area, Plateau State, as well as other completed school improvement projects across its five other adopted schools within the state. Uduimoh in a statement said the foundation’s intervention in the area of classrooms, furniture, boreholes, toilets, and wash bays, is aimed at providing facilities to meet learners’ needs and improve learning outcomes in various communities housing their adopted schools. She said, “We understand the importance of quality basic education in the society. The immediate environment where learning takes place is also crucial to the overall learning outcomes of pupils, hence the reason why we have heavily invested in ensuring our students in adopted schools learn under the right environment that will further enhance their learning capabilities. “Infrastructural development is a key driver for progress across the African continent and a critical enabler for productivity and sustainable economic growth. It contributes significantly to human development, poverty reduction, and the attainment of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).Our intervention in Plateau State, similar to other states where we operate, is holistic, ensuring the needs of the teachers and learners are adequately met for better learning outcomes,” she said. Deputy Governor of Plateau State, Prof. Sonni Tyoden, expressed delight at the upshots of the foundation’s work in the education sector. “I therefore implore the would be users of this classrooms and facilities who are the teachers and learners as well as members of the community to handle the facilities with care so they can last for a longer time. I am also appealing to the traditional rulers across the state to take interest in the management of public primary schools in their domain. The event was jointly organised by the Plateau State Government and the State Universal Basic Education Board in collaboration with the foundation.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .