 Enumah  with members of his family  A few days ago, however, reports filtered in that the vivacious, always bespectacled Dan Enumah is down. Mr. Dan, as he was fondly called, is, today, a shadow of himself.  He can’t walk or do quite a lot by himself. He was said to have gone down to a strange and debilitating ailment, which has rendered him almost bedridden for about a year. Enumah’s ordeal started in June 2018 when he fell in his apartment in Orile Iganmu area of Lagos and could not stand up afterwards. Things quickly deteriorated to the extent that, according to his wife, Mrs. Patricia Enumah, his only means of movement is to “crawl around the house.”“ He can neither speak nor recognise people. He has been confined to his bed for about a year. His health deteriorates daily,” a seemingly dispirited Mrs. Patricia said. For the family, the illness and incapacitation of their breadwinner has no doubt taken its toll. Things are now at the lowest ebb. Financially, it has become a struggle coping with the medical demands and challenges.Every penny the family earns goes to Mr. Enumah’s care. Living has become very difficult. The family now owes over a year’s rent. And the landlord is threatening eviction. In the midst of these, there have been muffled grumblings from other tenants, who now fear a possible infection or unhealthy transmission as a result of the ‘pollution’ resulting from Enumah’s deteriorating condition. The doctor treating Enumah suggested that he may be suffering from spinal cord or related injury from preliminary observations. Drugs were prescribed. But the family has been unable to procure the needed drugs or even carry out the CT MRI scan prescribed. The family seeks financial assistance from Nigerians to attend to his medical challenges.“We need financial assistance to enable the family take him to the hospital for comprehensive analysis and treatment. He has been at home unattended to medically for so long. We sincerely appeal for help to assist my husband live a normal life again,” the wife said.To help save Mr. Daniel Enumah, please call 08023421791.  Kindly send your donations to: Enumah Daniel Nwamaka, Union Bank Plc, 0008329476. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .