 Coconut dish  Preparation
If you’re using fresh coconuts, get a small pestle and slam it on the coconut – it will crack open and then you can separate the softer inner part from the hard shell using a small knife. Chop the coconuts into tiny bits, add some water and blend till it gives out enough milk. Pour the contents of the blender in a small sieve and drain the milk. Exert pressure to make sure most of the milk is drained. Add pasta to a pot of boiling water, add some salt and allow to boil, while stirring frequently to avoid clumping. However, do not let it cook through, leave 2 more minutes. Transfer to a colander and drain. Heat up a pan, add coconut oil. When it is hot, add seasoned chicken breast and brown on each side for 2 minutes. Transfer to a plate. Next add onions, sauté, add green bell pepper, chopped scotch bonnet, ginger, garlic. Add tomato puree and fry till sour taste is gone (about 4 minutes) Next add coconut milk, add chicken stock and allow to boil and reduce. Add cooked pasta and combine. Allow to cook till al dente. Garnish with cilantro Coconut Potato Pottage
Ingredients
4 Tablespoons Vegetable Oil
1 Teaspoon Curry Powder
1 Teaspoon Thyme
3 Scotch bonnet Pepper, chopped
½ Teaspoon ginger, chopped
4 Red Bell Peppers
2 Paprika
2 large red Onions (For blending and another chopped)
1Teaspoon Salt
1 Bouillon Cube
3 Cups Coconut milk
½ Cup Chicken Stock
6 Big Irish Potatoes
1 Sweet Red Bell Pepper
1 Sweet Green Bell Pepper
1 Carrot Sliced thinly
1 Spring Onions
1 lb Chicken Breast, boneless and skinless
 
Preparation
Prepare potatoes by peeling the skin and chopping into big cubes. After slicing into cubes, wash with water and leave it in the water till later on for cooking. Wash red bell pepper, scotch bonnet and onions. Blend till smooth. Slice Red and Green Pepper into strips, it will be added at the end of cooking.  Smash coconut and take the white part out, chop into little bits for easy blending. Blend with some water and sieve all the milk. Repeat this step till you get enough milk. If this process is too tedious, you can buy coconut milk from the supermarkets. Slice chicken breasts thinly so that it cooks quickly, season with some salt, paprika and set aside. Cooking
In a pan, add vegetable oil and allow to heat up. When the pan is hot, add onions, ginger, curry powder, thyme and fry till it is soft and translucent. Next add pepper blend, and fry till the oil floats to the top or the sauce begins to clump together. Add salt and seasoning, stir together and keep frying for a few minutes. Next add deboned fish and keep frying till the oil floats to the top. Add coconut milk to the pot, the chicken stock and add potatoes. Make sure the milk is enough to cook the potatoes thoroughly. Cover and cook for 30 minutes. While the potatoes are cooking, in a pan, spray some vegetable oil and stir-fry sliced bell peppers and carrots till fragrant and almost translucent. In the same pan, add sliced chicken breast and fry on both sides till lightly browned, till should take about 4 minutes. When the potatoes are cooked, add stir-fry peppers and chicken, then mix everything together, mashing some potato in the process. Sprinkle the spring onions for garnishing and extra flavor. Coconut curry
Ingredients
1 lbs chicken breasts
2 Tablespoons groundnut oil
2 Tablespoons curry powder
1 White Onion, chopped
1 Green Bell Pepper
1 Teaspoon chopped ginger
2 Cloves garlic, crushed
2 Cups coconut milk
3 Tablespoons Tomato puree
Salt to taste
Chicken stock cube to taste Instructions
Season chicken breasts with salt, onion powder and paprika then set aside. In a pan, heat up 2 tablespoons of groundnut oil and transfer chicken breast to brown on each side for 2 minutes. Remove from pan. Add onions to the pan and cook for 1 minute till translucent, add green bell pepper, chopped ginger and minced garlic, curry, thyme and cook for another minute. Add tomato puree and fry for 5 minutes. Next pour coconut milk into the pan, chicken breasts and stir to combine. Cover and simmer, stirring occasionally, approximately 10 minutes Serve with rice, yam or potatoes.