Saint Thomas More Catholic Chaplaincy, University of Lagos, last Sunday, honoured some members, aged 70 and above, as part of activities marking its 10th anniversary. It also used the occasion to lay a foundation of a grotto. The Chaplain, Rev. Fr. Paul Akin-Otiko, said the church considered it worthy to celebrate the elders.He said: “We are grateful to God; the people are happy. We are a family and the Lord has been very good to us. We are happy that in the last 10 years, we have been able to put up a chapel, a specific centre, Reverend father’s house and today, we are laying a foundation for a grotto, which is beautiful.” While urging Nigerians to celebrate and cherish their elderly ones, Rev. Fr. Akin-Otiko, said: “The history of this place reflects the elders. They were the people that started this place from inception, so they can tell its story. We know that if you forget where you are coming from, then tomorrow, you will make the mistakes of yesterday. So, our elders are part of the family. We recognise them, not because they have retired, but because they are still part of us. “The family, as a basic unit, must be sound for Nigeria to be strong. A family must be prayerful, purposeful. We must come together as African families.” The awardees included Emeritus Professor Peter Olufemi Adeniyi and Professor of Aesthetics Metrology, Prof. David Esezobor of the University of Lagos. Prof. Adeniyi said: “It is not by my making that I’m being celebrated today. It is through God’s grace. I have been here for more than 45 years. When people think you’ve done well, they honour you by giving an award. This is one of many I have received in my life. When people celebrate families and they recognise you as one of the elders, you should feel happy, because getting to that age is not by your making. So, I feel happy.” Prof. Esezobor, who is also Chair of the Laity Council said: “Today is a remarkable day, as it is a day we call solemnity of the Corpus Christi, which means the celebration of the body and blood of Jesus. Today is also the chaplain’s 10th anniversary. We are celebrating our loved ones, the elders in our midst. Today, we also have a lot of unfolding activities and projects…” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .