 [FILE PHOTOS] Rochas Okorocha  Ihedioha, who insisted that those projects were under Federal Government’s purview, made the allegation in a statement titled: How Rochas Okorocha Robbed Imo to Pay Abuja issued by his Special Assistant on Research, Ogu Bundu Nwadike. He said Imo people were denied of the funds, which could have impacted on them in the most desired areas of need, than channeling such resources to the constitutionally excluded projects for state governments. “When Vice President Yemi Osinbajo visited Imo State on his tour of oil producing states, Okorocha in his welcome address told the audience that Imo State did not benefit anything from the President Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government. “Okorocha narrated how in spite of the fact that Imo State is an APC State, it received no special benefit from the Federal Government. “Ironically, he went ahead to use N 11.2b to build a house for the Federal Government as Headquarters of the Nigeria Police. He also gave out a number of General Hospitals to the Nigerian Army, Navy and Air Force. “That is a case of robbing Imo to pay Abuja. How could a governor who couldn’t attract anything from the central government be building structures with lean State resources and giving them out to the Federal Government?” the statement reads. Meanwhile, Ihedioha at the weekend resolved the lingering land crisis between the Nigeria Air Force (NAF) Regiment 211 and Imo communities. The host communities are, Obube and Umuowa communities in Owerri North and Ngor Okpala council of the state. In a statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Chibuike Onyeukwu, the governor also sued for a peaceful resolution of all land related crisis in the state. Ihedioha was accompanied by the Commandant, 211 Regiment Group, Group Captain Phillip Elisha Bindul and top government functionaries, who visited and met with stakeholders from the communities. He said the purpose of his visit was to ascertain contentious issues and seek cooperation of the communities to allow peace and development to thrive in the area. Speaking, Bindul lamented how litigations in court had hindered work on the proposed site, saying the NAF was allocated 100 hectares of land for the construction of the 211 Regiment and as a law abiding agency, it would not exceed the boundary allocated to it. Traditional Ruler of the area, Eze Jude Chidi Nwaogu, commended Governor Ihedioha for his prompt intervention in the dispute and assured of their cooperation and support towards a peaceful resolution. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .