Former governor of Imo State Senator Rochas Okorocha Monday said the state’s governor Emeka Ihedioha attacks on his property is an abuse of power in a bid to witch hunt him. “In the last couple of months, the government of Emeka Ihedioha has launched and sustained attacks on my property and that of my family members,” Okorocha said in a statement. “I have been quiet about all these unwarranted attacks but they should not take my silence for granted.” This came four days after the former governor was invited by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) for questioning over allegations of money laundering. Ihedioha, however, set up state Recovery of Moveable Assets Committee to retrieve alleged government properties looted by the former governor. While EFCC in July sealed some properties owned by the former governor. The properties include Dews of Hope Hospital traced to Dr Paschal Obi, ex-principal Secretary to Okorocha, Market Square Supermarket, All in One Shop, and premises belonging to Imo State Broadcasting Corporation now hosting Rochas Foundation College owned by Senator Okorocha. Ihedioha also alleged that  Okorocha approved and used about N11.2 billion to build ultra-modern police headquarters and hospitals for the military. He said Imo people were denied the funds, which could have impacted on them in the most desired areas of need than channeling such resources to the constitutionally excluded projects for state governments. “When Vice President Yemi Osinbajo visited Imo State on his tour of oil-producing states, Okorocha in his welcome address told the audience that Imo State did not benefit anything from the President Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government.” “Ironically, he went ahead to use N 11.2b to build a house for the Federal Government as Headquarters of the Nigeria Police. He also gave out a number of General Hospitals to the Nigerian Army, Navy and Air Force.” “That is a case of robbing Imo to pay Abuja,” Ihedioha insisted. Rochas has however insisted that allegations against him are political and a bid to witch hunt him. He said his silence should not be taken for granted. He mentioned that the secretary to the State Government (SSG), Uche Onyeaguocha, went to his private guesthouse, chased away the security men and broke into the house, ransacked it and made away with documents, locked up the house and took the keys. Okorocha said he has reported the attacks to authorities. He also asked the state’s governor to obtain court order that will legalise any of its actions and not destroy his personal properties. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .