 Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo. Photo/Twitter/SeyiAMakinde  According to a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, the governor also promised to give preference to local contractors “to ensure that Oyo’s money stays in Oyo.” The governor reportedly said this while addressing PDP loyalists in the Soun Ogunlola Hall, Ogbomoso, who came to receive him.“Since we were elected, this is the first time I am coming to Ogbomoso. I am using this occasion to appreciate you for your support for me and the PDP. It is my prayer that whatever is your expectation in this government will be met. “You will not labour in vain. I know that many people would have begun to look at what they can benefit. I want to assure you that those who worked will benefit. Other people will not reap where you sowed,” Makinde said. The statement further quoted the governor as urging party faithful to be patient with his government on the issue of appointments. Meanwhile, the South West zone of the PDP is happy with the governor for his giant strides less than 100 days in office. In a statement yesterday by the spokesman, Mr. Ayo Fadaka, the party expressed happiness that the people of Oyo got a new lease of life under Makinde. The statement read in part: “This is becoming evidently so in view of the quality of policies, legislations and managerial acumen of Governor Seyi Makinde. “We note with sadness a statement credited to the immediate past governor to the effect that the issue of missing government vehicles is a ‘minor issue’ and that such was not ‘worthy’ of the attention of government.”It equally noted that Ajimobi’s attempt to dismiss sharp practices of such magnitude underscored how the state’s resources were carelessly frittered under his watch. “The Oyo State government continues to maintain that many of the cars procured in February 2019 by the Ajimobi administration remain missing and such vehicles, in view of their age, cannot be classified as unserviceable. “We, therefore, demand of Senator Abiola Ajimobi to take due cognisance of what posterity will say concerning him and his tenure and immediately impress it on his appointees to return those vehicles to the new government.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .