Scene of the accident State government to take responsibility of accident victims’ medical bills
Three persons have been confirmed dead and 57 others injured in an accident involving a truck and a Bus Rapid Transport (BRT) bus in Lagos yesterday. The accident occurred at Itowolo area of Asolo on Ikorodu road. According to a witness, the driver of the truck carrying cement had a brake failure, lost control, and suddenly skidded into the BRT lane, crushing the oncoming mass transit bus with registration number LSR228XS, which was on its dedicated corridor. The BRT bus was conveying scores of passengers to different destinations, with its last bus stop being Ikorodu garage. Mr. Fola Tinubu, the Managing Director of Primero, owner of the BRT bus, said three persons died in the accident. Two of the deceased were Primero workers while the third person was a female passenger. He added that there was nothing the BRT driver could do as the truck jumped from its lane and hit the bus head-on. “Unfortunately, we lost two of our staff and one passenger in the accident. We are working with the authorities to apprehend the truck driver. Right now our thoughts and prayers are with the families and friends of the deceased and we are praying for full recovery for the injured. “All our vehicles are fully insured and our passengers are also insured but that will not bring back the dead. I pray for God to grant the deceased souls eternal rest and we will continue to investigate the accident.” According to the Chief Executive Officer, Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), Dr. Olufemi Oke-Osayintolu, only one mortality was recorded at the accident scene. He said the bus was carrying 40 seated and 20 standing passengers, adding that all the passengers on board suffered injuries. “All passengers on board suffered various degrees of injuries with one female passenger losing her life. The driver suffered severe life-threatening injuries with his leg totally decapitated. The combined efforts of the agency’s assets (Medical Unit, Tiger unit, Papa Eagle and Cobra unit) are on ground working alongside LNSC, police, FRSC and LASTMA to ease vehicular movement and ensure a swift recovery of the accidented truck,” he said. Meanwhile, the Lagos State government has promised to take full responsibility of the medical bills of victims of the accident. The state Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, said this during a visit to victims of the accident at the General Hospital, Ikorodu. He expressed deep sympathy to the victims and assured them of quality and adequate care at the facility. Abayomi explained that out of the 53 accident victims that were brought to the hospital, one of the victims was brought in dead while two others died in the hospital due to the severity of injuries sustained. He added that eight other were referred to other state-owned specialist facilities noting that five of the patients were referred to the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH) and three others were taken to the General Hospital, Gbagada for further treatment. The Commissioner commended the swift action of the Lagos Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), LASAMBUS, LASTMA and other first responders in the prompt rescue of the accident victims. While speaking with family members of the victims, Abayomi said the state government remains committed to ensuring that Lagosians get the best healthcare services and will leave no stone unturned in ensuring best practices in healthcare delivery across the state.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .