 NDDC Abandoned Rice Mill at Etete Alimi, River State  Investigation by The Guardian further revealed that there exist a network of syndicate responsible for obtaining contracts from the commission, and selling them to subcontractors. This syndicate, which audaciously sell contracts close to the NDDC corporate headquarters along Aba Road, Port Harcourt, Rivers State, thrives because most contracts are won unfairly, with awards favoring friends or relatives of ruling political party chieftains and government officials.
 
An unsuspecting member of the syndicate had offered to sell some contracts to The Guardian. One of the jobs is NDDC/EDP/ INS PR/DT/17/ 396, which is for emergency repairs of failed and unmotorable sections of NEPA Cooperative/FUPRE Staff Quarters Road, along Ehwerhe Road, off Tension, Agbarho, Delta State.
   
The bill of engineering measurement and evaluation estimated that the job would cost N409, 287, 400.99. The second contract, NDDC/EDP/INS PR/DT/17/416 is for the construction/ emergency repairs of failed and unmotorable sections of Oil field Road and 3rd Marine Gate Road in Warri South Local Council, Delta State, valued at N266, 200, 000. 00.
 
Inside sources revealed that due to anomalies in the award of emergency contracts, the former minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Usani Uguru Usani, (the ministry supervises the NDDC) had to stop the award of emergency contracts. But immediately the last cabinet was dissolved, the management of the commission resumed the award of emergency road repair contracts, which it backdated.
 
Emergency road repair contacts, which are not subject to due process and their profit margin, in most cases, hovers between 40 and 50 percent, are sold to prospective contractors by syndicates at 10 percent the cost of the project. The prospective contractors then pay additional three percent to the middleman and 15 percent to officials of the commission as kickback.
 
Some contractors, who are owed payments for months and years, told The Guardian that officials of the commission were comfortable awarding emergency road repair contracts because of the high returns they expect to get.
 
The issue of corporate governance in the NDDC has been murky over the while, with some staff members complaining that the decision of the acting managing director to recruit two of his sons as his personal aides does not elicit trust from stakeholders. An aide to one of the board members said this act, in a conflict environment like the Niger Delta depicts the absence of moral fibre and rectitude in governance.
 
“The first and most terrible way to compromise your office is to employ your children. That their names are on the payroll and they have offices there is an absurdity. One of the managing director’s sons is the chief of staff, while the other is in charge of protocol and logistics. Now, how can this foster greater trust and accountability, particularly in a conflict environment like the Niger Delta,” he said.
 
It is worthy to point out that the NDDC has also become a honey pot for National Assembly members from the region. Apart from top politicians’ wives, chieftains of the ruling party benefitted immensely from the recent award of water hyacinth contracts.Reacting to the recent grilling of principal officers of the NDDC, the special adviser on media to the managing director, Nancy Stephens Ijaopo said there was nothing to fret about, as activities of her principal were open for public scrutiny. She also dismissed insinuation that Brambaifa-led NDDC was being tele-guided by extraneous forces  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .