Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike has proscribed all youth groups in the state and declared one Bobrisky wanted over the alleged murder of a Rivers State Government official. Wike, in a statement by his media aide Simeon Nwakaudu, said his administration is prepared to tackle insecurity and protect lives and property. “Rivers State Government is fully prepared and will do everything required to protect lives and property. Without the protection of lives and property, there will be no governance and development,” Wike said. Wike said proscribing the youth groups were necessary because they have been hijacked by cultists. The governor declared that anybody operating under a youth body in Rivers State will be arrested by security agencies. He also placed a N30million bounty on anyone that provides information that will lead to the arrest of the persons that killed the government official. Wike, however, blamed the Nigerian government for insecurity in River State. “We are one State that has suffered neglect from the Federal Government in terms of support to fight insecurity,” Wike said. He accused the government of refusing to pay back funds ought to be used in constructing Federal Projects. But said he will not stop from intervening in the state’s security needs. The governor donated about 40 patrol vehicles to operatives of the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (FSARS), See 4 Eye, Police Anti-Kidnapping, Police Anti-Cultism, Federal Road Safety Corps and Eagle Crime in Rivers State. Wike urged the security agencies to use the vehicles and gunboats donated to secure Rivers State. He disclosed that the Rivers State Government will establish a Trust Fund to cater for the families of policemen who lose their lives while fighting crime. Rivers State police commissioner Mustapha Dandaura assured Wike that the security agencies will use the vehicle to tackle criminals across the state. He said that since the inauguration of Operation Sting, there has been an improvement in the security of lives and property in the state.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .