 Chairman and Members of the Delta State Traditional Rulers Council, led by HRM Emmanuel Oyinke Efeizomor II, the Obi of Owa Kingdom, who paid us a Royal Visit at the Government House in Asaba.  Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa has said that the development of the state is a collective responsibility that should not be hindered by personal, ethnic, religious or political leaning. The governor stated this yesterday in Asaba when members of Delta State Council of Traditional Rulers, led by their Chairman, the Obi of Owa, His Royal Majesty (HRM) Emmanuel Efeizomor II, visited him, and urged Deltans to be passionate about the development of the state.He also stated that citizens of the state owed it a duty to contribute to its development, and charged them to use the opportunities available now to impact positively on the lives of the people, assuring that his administration would remain focused and pursue programmes that would attract investors. Okowa, who commended the monarchs for their contributions toward the prevailing peace in the state, said: “Traditional rulers in this state have done so much for us; you are architects of peace in our state because when the various kingdoms are at peace with themselves, God will bless that state. “I urge you to continue to talk with our people so that this peace will be consolidated. I have found that there is so much love among the traditional rulers. I hope that the political class will learn to show love to one another and collectively, we will develop our state.”He expressed appreciation to the traditional rulers for the show of love, saying: “For the visit and the fact that at every ceremony your presence sends a message that we are one, I also thank all Deltans for their support. We will do our best to take the state to an enviable position within the next four years.” Earlier, Obi Efeizomor II had told the governor: “We are here to felicitate with you on your birthday. We know that you love us so well and we thank God, the creator of the universe, for granting you the grace to clock and celebrate your 60th birthday. It was a thing of joy to all of us and entire Deltans.’’In a related vein, the state government has reiterated the imperativeness of regular updating and upgrading of those charged with the responsibility of driving the implementation machineries to ensure that processes are in tune with international best practices. According to a statement signed by the Public Relations Officer, Ministry of Works, Tina Okii, and issued to The Guardian in Asaba yesterday, Okowa stated this in Abraka, Ethiope East Local Council, while declaring open the third edition of the yearly two-day training for civil engineers in the ministry. Okowa, represented by his deputy, Kingsley Burutu Otuaro, disclosed that his administration highly values the partnership of the civil service establishment in the implementation of its programmes.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .