The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission Tuesday said its operatives did not raid the residence of the former governor of Lagos State Akinwunmi Ambode in Epe. The Commission said, “whatever” it was doing was within its constitutional right and part of the investigations of former governors. The denial contradicts what the EFCC spokesman told The Guardian earlier on Tuesday. “We are there, at his residence for the continuation of the ongoing investigation,” Orilade told The Guardian on Tuesday. The Tuesday raid was a part of the corruption investigation after he left the office. The commission secured a court order to freeze three accounts domiciled in First City Monument Bank, Access Bank and Zenith Bank earlier in the month. The accounts, EFCC said, needed to be frozen until the conclusion of the investigation and possible prosecution of Adewale Adesanya, the permanent secretary in the Office of the Chief of Staff to Ambode, who operated the accounts. EFCC said the FCMB account received “a huge inflow of N9,927,714,443.29” from the accounts of Lagos State Government. EFCC records showed that the account was opened on September 18, less than a month to the day Ambode finally lost a primary election to his main challenger then, Babajide Sanwo-Olu. “There have been concerted efforts and attempts to dissipate the contents of the accounts listed in the schedule to this application,” EFCC lawyer Mohammed Abbas told Justice Chuka Obiozor of the Federal High Court sitting in Ikoyi, Lagos, on August 6. “Without freezing the nominated accounts and temporarily forfeiting the money to the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, there is no way the fraud being perpetrated using the scheduled accounts can be stopped.” Ambode, however, said he has nothing to do with the said accounts. “The former Governor was not and will never be involved in any unauthorised use of government property and resources,” Ambode’s media aide Habib Aruna said in a statement on August 9. Aruna said the investigated accounts were opened for administrative purpose of Lagos State Government and not for the former Ambode’s personal transactions.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .