Mary Dinah, newly crowned Miss Nigeria Great Britain Queen (MNGBQ) at the Angle Villa Hotel, Lekki-Lagos. After two months of auditions, rehearsals and screening of over 36 candidates, Mary Dinah, was crowned the Miss Nigeria Great Britain Queen (MNGBQ) at the Angle Villa Hotel, Lekki-Lagos. The event promoted by McErnest 360, a UK based media company, was attended by top dignitaries from the business, political and entertainment class. In her remarks, the newly crowned queen promised to make life better for the girl child in Africa. She promised to eliminate hunger, illiteracy among others as a means of actualizing the ‘Zero Hunger,’ United Nations Sustainable Development Goal. She, however, called on the female folks to resist limitations as well as shortcuts in a quest to attaining greater heights in whatever careers pursuit and life. Dinah, who is the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Seattle Residences and Spa and Founder of Mary Dinah Foundation, an international NGO, said, “I have a big responsibility to use everything I have achieved to make a big impact on society. However, I have chosen Zero Hunger as my main area of focus.” The newly crowned queen said she would focus on two key areas of the national interest- unemployment and gender inequality. She hinted that she has been working on finding solutions to these challenges in the past. “The unemployment rate in Nigeria is in a dire state. We have total unemployment at about 23 per cent, with youth unemployment heading towards 50 per cent, and female unemployment which people barely look at is edging towards 50 per cent as well. “In the northeast we have young girls being kidnapped from school as well as stopped altogether from going to schools, a position we must continue to fight against.” Dinah urged Nigerians to come together as one Nigeria without tribal, religious sentiments to solve the problems. She pledged to support the government at state and federal level in the development of the tourism sector. “I believe Lagos is a beautiful state and should be seen as a megacity. It has not yet gotten a global frontier like Miami, London, and Paris. I have visited those cities and thought they are nice Lagos has a beauty and uniqueness like nowhere else. She explained that her passion to support humanity dated back to her childhood but got serious expression in 2014 when she established, The Mary Dinah Foundation. The foundation, she said has been successful in other youth benevolence programs including Job-Link which was Nigeria’s first every jobcentre and connected over 10,000 people to work. Mary Dinah has received numerous awards for her contribution to society including the Vice Chancellors Award at University of Surrey, Governors Award in Lagos State, Social Impact Award (2017) and Future Leaders Award (2018) by the British Council. Her academic qualification includes BSc Computer Science from University of Nottingham, MSc International Hotel Management from University of Surrey (Distinction), Post Graduate Degree in Global Business from University of Oxford (Distinction) and a post-graduate certificate in entrepreneurship from Harvard University (Distinction). She is also a United Nations Fellow and has acquired a post-graduate degree from the United Nations Institute of Training and Research (UNITAR) in Geneva, Switzerland. Dinah’s hobbies include horse riding, clay pigeon shooting, squash and travelling the world. 