 [FILES] Shehu Sani  The lawmaker made the remarks yesterday while receiving the executive members of the PRP on a courtesy call to his residence in Kaduna. They were led by the state’s party chairman, Hon. AbdulRahman Haruna Danbirni. The executive members, who briefed Senator Sani on the party’s upcoming national convention, also called on him to contest for the party’s national chairmanship position, saying his achievements while representing Kaduna Central at the Senate recommend him. Senator Sani, however, noted that one of the major tasks before PRP remains the reformation of the party for “men of honour and integrity to take over relevant positions and win elections in 2023 in order to free Nigerians from deception, fraud, and misrepresentation of which the ruling APC is notorious.” The lawmaker said the ruling “APC begins with President Buhari and it will end with Buhari,” as there is no ideological relationship between the masses and the ruling party. According to him, “APC is not a party that is founded on ideology; it is a party that is found on resentment against PDP and it is also a party that is founded under the banner of President Buhari. It is unfortunate for all the promises and pledges of cleaning, reforming and reconfiguring this country; the ruling APC had failed. “They have failed in their pledge to revamp the economy. They have failed to respect the rule of law and fundamental rights of citizens. They have failed in their promises to uphold the honour of the common man. They have failed in their promises to lay a good example for compliance with democratic values and progressive governance. “The ruling APC is not different from the party they overthrew, and that is why so many people have left the party. Most of the people who are in APC today are going back to PDP. They are with Buhari because he is in power. And they will leave Buhari the very day he leaves power. They are not with Buhari because of his ideas, integrity, and thinking. Where were they in 2003, 2007 and 2011? They were with PDP.  Buhari will not know who his friends or enemies are until he is out of power. “PRP is not a party for anybody; it is a party founded on progressive ideas and ideological focus. It’s not a merger where you have reformed and small thieves, small and big-armed rubbers that will come together to win an election.” Senator Sani recalled that President Buhari had always gained the support of PRP, led by Alhaji Balarabe Musa since he decided to join partisan politics, “but what happened now that the two personalities or the two political forces are at variance with each other? It is simply because the ruling party has abandoned its vision and promises and has taken a role that is alien to the people.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .