 Sanwo-Olu swearing-in distinguished men and women who are now commissioners and special advisers. Photo: TWITTER/JIDESANWOOLU  He implored the new cabinet members to shun corrupt practices, as they cannot afford to disappoint Lagos residents. The governor has abolished the Ministry of Wealth Creation and merged the Ministry of Waterfront Infrastructure with Environment. He said his administration must accelerate the trajectory of growth and development of Lagos State embarked upon by the administration of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and built upon by successive administrations. The governor also said that as the new cabinet members prepare for the challenges ahead, they must see their appointment as a unique privilege and a call to service. The new commissioners are Rabiu Olowo Onaolapo (Commissioner for Finance), Mrs. Folashade Adefisayo (Commissioner for Education), Prof. Akin Abayomi (Commissioner for Health), Dr. Idris Salako (Commissioner for Fiscal Planning and Urban Development), Mr. Tunji Bello (Commissioner for Water Resources and Environment), Mr. Gbenga Omotoso (Commissioner for Information and Strategy), Mrs. Bolaji Dada (Commissioner for Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation). Others are Mr. Lere Odusote (Commissioner Energy and Natural Resources), Dr. Frederic Oladeinde (Commissioner for Transportation), Mr. Gbolahan Lawal (Commissioner for Agriculture), Moruf Akinderu Fatai (Commissioner for Housing), Mr. Moyo Onigbanjo (SAN) (Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice), Mr. Hakeem Fahm (Commissioner for Science and Technology), Mrs. Ajibola Ponnle (Commissioner for Ministry Establishment, Training and Pension), Engr. Aramide Adeyoye (Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure) and Mr. Segun Dawodu (Commissioner for Youth and Social Development). The rest are Mrs. Uzamat Akinbile-Yusuf (Commissioner for Home Affairs), Mrs. Yetunde Arobieke (Commissioner for Local Government and Community Affairs), Mrs. Lola Akande (Commissioner for Commerce and Industry), Mrs. Olufunke Adebolu (Commissioner for Tourism Arts and Culture) and Mr. Sam Egube (Commissioner for Economy Planning and Budget), The Special Advisers are Dr. Wale Ahmed (Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Relations), Ruth Bisola Olusanya (not available) (Ministry of Agriculture), Princess Aderemi Adebowale (Office of Civic Engagement), Mr. Afolabi Ayantayo (Political and Legislative Affairs), Mrs. Toke Benson-Awoyinka (Ministry of Housing), Joe Igbokwe (Drainage and Water Resources), Tubosun Alake (Innovation and Technology), Architect Kabiru Ahmed Abdullahi (Urban Development), Anofi Olanrewaju Elegushi (Central Business Districts), Bonu Solomon Saanu (Arts and Culture), Oluwatoyin Fayinka (Ministry of Transportation), Oladele Ajayi (Commerce and Industry), Tokunbo Wahab (Ministry of Education), Solape Hammond (Sustainable Development Goals) and Mr. Tunbosun Alake, (Innovation and Technology), In another development, the Lagos State House of Assembly yesterday confirmed Justice Kazeem Olanrewaju Alogba as the Chief Judge of the state. Speaker of the House, Mudashiru Obasa, stated that the Chief Judge had proved to be capable of the office and that it was a mere formality for him to appear before the lawmakers for confirmation. The House confirmed him through a voice vote supervised by the Speaker. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .