 Newcastle United’s Swiss defender Fabian Schar (L) vies with Tottenham Hotspur’s English striker Harry Kane (R) during the English Premier League football match between Tottenham Hotspur and Newcastle United at Tottenham Hotspur Stadium in London, on August 25, 2019. (Photo by Daniel LEAL-OLIVAS / AFP)  Spurs striker Kane admits they cannot afford many more slip-ups otherwise reigning champions City and Liverpool will be out of sight from the chasing pack. It only highlights the blistering pace which Liverpool and City have set and carried from last season with Tottenham struggling to live up to the tag as the team most likely to close the gap on the top two. Kane, whose side suffered a shock first defeat to Newcastle to leave them in seventh place, said: “As you’re seeing from Manchester City and Liverpool there is no letting up from them. “I said before the start of the season that if we could put a run together, get that momentum, maybe winning for two-three months on the spin without dropping any points, then that’s what it’s going to take. It’s a disappointing start but there is a long way to go. “I said as much after the first weekend of the season. Liverpool won on Friday night and then Manchester City won early on Saturday. “They set the standard with those results and I knew we had to keep up with them, make sure we win, especially at home. It is disappointing that we haven’t done that in only our second home game (losing at home to Newcastle). “But there is still a long way to go, there are a lot of big games ahead of us. It just means we are going to have to pick up points in the big games, the tough games and try to improve on what we did against Newcastle. “Obviously winning the first game was great and getting a point at Manchester City is not a bad result. But this is where we needed to step up if we want to be up there come to the end of the season. “These are the games at home that you have to win. We have a week before another big game and we have to address it, see what we can do better to improve and go from there. “I think we have to learn that teams who come here and get an early goal, are going to defend and make it tough. We need to have the answers to that. Obviously, we’d like to go ahead, go 1-0, 2-0 up and finish the game from that point of view. “That isn’t always going to be the case so when it gets difficult, tight moments in the opponent’s half of the pitch, we have to find more answers. That’s all of us, the stuff we need to work on. That is what we have to try and do.” Kane has also sounded a warning that Tottenham must get a result from Sunday’s North London derby at Arsenal and victory there would put a different complexion on their start before reporting up for England duty. He added: “You never want to go into an international break having lost or drawn. Of course, a north London derby is as big as it gets. If we win that it makes the first four games a bit brighter. “It won’t be easy, but we have to make sure we are prepared and ready for that one. It is still going to take a lot of hard work.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .