 Kanu Nwankwo in his playing days  Remember him? 
He was Nigeria’s football captain at the first FIFA U-16 Tournament that took place in China in 1985. He led that team to a remarkable victory, one that helped to create the foundation for future achievements by Nigerian teams. 
 
That victory in 1985 ignited a fire in Nigerian boys at home and became a psychological impetus, the take-off point of self-belief by successive Nigerian teams that they could also win a world competition in football. After that, winning the World Cup proper became a possibility only waiting to happen.
 
Fatai Atere later moved to the United States to pursue his education rather than pursue a professional career in football. 
 
He was decorated with the national honour of Member of the Order of the Niger (MON) by the federal government and a major street in Lagos was named after him, an everlasting legacy to a great football player and national captain. PAPILLO – King Kanu
It took seven years after the China-success for the anticipated impact of the 1985 victory to become manifest. When it did, it became the start of a most glorious era for Nigerian football. At the FIFA/JVC U-17 Championship in Japan 1993, history was repeated, this time more forcefully and convincingly.  He was also decorated with the national honour of Member of the Order of the Niger, MON,  and is Nigeria’s, UNICEF’s and CAF’s International Football Ambassador.
 
I salute Fatai and Kanu on their birthdays.
 
Chief S.B. Williams – class and style 
As I was writing about Atere and Kanu, a name sprang at me from the archives of Nigerian football, the name of a man who was very instrumental to the major successes recorded in the 1990s but who has never been acknowledged or celebrated for his unprecedented and unmatched service to Nigerian sports.  He was a contractor to the military, and close friends with General Ibrahim Babangida, General Sani Abacha, and Admiral Augustus Aikhomu. He was at different times a member of the NFA Board, Chairman of the Board of the National Sports Commission, and Chairman of the Local Organising Committee for the World Youth Championship in 1995.  But all the time he was a committed friend to sports and sportspersons.  
 
He was the person that singlehandedly brought Clemens Westerhof to Nigeria. He hired the Dutchman for the national team and, for a while, paid him directly from his purse. Clemens’ reported a close relationship with the Vice-President at that time, the myth that he had unfettered access to the Presidency and unlimited funds to drive the Green Eagles, was actually Chief S.B. Williams pulling the strings, providing the funds and leading Westerhof by hand through the corridors of power.  From the list of all the over 40 nominees for position of minister screened this past week by the Senate, the feeling within the sports fraternity is that there is no standout person for sports, once again demonstrating government’s lack of full appreciation of the specialist nature of sports and the vital need of the sector for a leader that knows the terrain, has the qualifications and experience, and understands the sensibilities of sports.  Whilst welcoming the new Minister, I urge him to consider the following:
1.  Enquire about the essential benefits of reviving the National Sports Commission with a board of quality stakeholders to complement him in proper sports development in the country. 2.  Study the roles and responsibilities of the different bodies in sports and how he can relate and successfully work with each one without upturning the entire structure. 3.   Study the funding of the different aspects of sports so that the government can be well-guided into taking up and funding the aspects of its statutory responsibilities to Nigerians, and NOT buy into the cheap claim that the government should hand off sports and their funding. 4.  Be wary of the ‘experts’ that will besiege his office and start another round of providing advice that will only lead down the old slope of non-development and endless crisis. 
 
I wish the new minister a great tenure and look forward to a new era of development in Nigerian sports.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .