 President Muhammadu Buhari. (Photo by PIUS UTOMI EKPEI / AFP)  Stakeholders in the Nigerian project had earlier urged President Buhari to change the service chiefs for positive results, but the President has remain adamant, retaining the service chiefs for almost four years, while the security situation worsens.He said, “We have continuously felt so comfortable with a particular strategy over time, but if we really need a different result we must try a different strategy. “It is expected naturally that seat of power should be the safest place for one to live in but it does appear that the challenge also states us in the face here in the FCT. “The primary responsibility of a responsible government is to protect lives and property of its citizens. Therefore, the government must rise to the responsibility and ensure that Nigerians go to sleep with their two eyes closed.” Former Commissioner of Police (CP) at the FCT command, Lawrence Alobi urged private business owners to install closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras to support the infrastructure deficit in the FCT to curb insecurity. Alobi said the security infrastructure in advanced climes like America and Europe were complimented by business owners whose CCTV equipment are used to aide investigations and cracking of crimes.A member of the panel and President, Association of women in Trade and Agriculture, Ruth Agbo, noted that poor traders could not afford to install CCTV in their open shops but deserved to be protected as citizens who struggle to boost the local economy. Meanwhile, scholars and activists have blamed the increasing insecurity, poverty and corruption in the country on past decisions of the nation’s elites and leaders. Specifically, the country’s business model since 1982, the structural Adjustment Programme (SAP) was identified as a major cause of increased poverty, unemployment and underdevelopment in the country. They stated this at the third Professor Abubakar Momoh memorial lecture in Lagos, where they urged Nigerians irrespective of age to stand up against mis-governance, while demanding accountability and equality.The speakers include Vice Chancellor of Lagos State University (LASU), Prof. Olanrewaju Adigun Fagbohun, journalist and activist, Owei Lakemfa, former Lagos State Commissioner for Information, Kehinde Bamigbetan and Dean, Faculty of Social Sciences, LASU, among others.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .