Embattled Kogi State deputy governor Simon Achuba said the commencement of his impeachment process shows lawmakers of the state assembly are not reasonable. “I should have thought that the assembly would be reasonable, but they are not,” Achuba said in an interview published by The Cable. Lawmakers of the Kogi State House of Assembly Wednesday, August 7 began an impeachment process against Achuba. The impeachment notice was read by the majority leader of the House, Abdullahi Bello on the floor of the assembly. Bello announced that 21 out of the 25 lawmakers signed the petition against Achuba and described his offences as gross misconduct in office. The deputy governor said he was being witch-hunted for speaking against corruption in the Yahaya Bello administration in Kogi State. “And, of course, that also is the main issue because I have a right to express my view,” Achuba said. “I have it guaranteed in the constitution, and by the virtue of the oath that I have taken, I cannot see corruption and refuse to expose it.” Achuba said he was disappointed that his decision to expose corruption in non-payment of worker salaries and project completion by the governor was the reason he was served impeachment notice. The assembly members accused Achuba of criminal indulgence, financial misappropriation and non-performance in office to commence impeachment proceedings. The speaker Kolawole Matthew agreed to the lawmakers’ petition and ordered that a notice is served on the deputy governor. Matthew asked Achuba to respond to the allegations within the next 14 days. While it is unknown if Achuba has responded to the assembly on allegations against him, he, however, insists that all allegations against him in the notice are untrue. Achuba also refuted his recent suspension by the state chapter of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). “If you are starting suspension, you start from the person’s ward, and then you move to the local government and then come to the state and all that,” Achuba said. He opined that there are two factions of the party in Kogi State, thus there is no legitimate suspension against him.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .