Titilola Vivour-Adeniyi, Coordinator DSVRT (left), Dr. Tolu Oko-Igaire, Provost, Institute of Counseling in Nigeria, Rev. Kolawole Peter, CAN representative, Rev Glory Akpabio, PFN representative, Prophet Fakunle Adewale, Celestial Church of Christ representative, Chief Imam, Alhaji Ibrahim, Muslim community representative and Jibola Ijimakinwa, Coordinator, ROLAC, Lagos at the end of the two day LASG/religious institutions parley to end domestic and sexual violence in Lagos…recently The Lagos State Domestic and Sexual Violence Response Team (DSVRT), has concluded a two-day workshop to strengthen the capacity of religious institutions in responding to domestic and sexual violence. The event, which was organised in partnership with the European Union (EU)-funded Rule of Law and Anti Collaboration Programme (RoLAC) and Nigeria Policing Programme, was aimed at sensitising religious organisations and ensuring adequate response to complaints of sexual and gender-based violence in the state. According to the DSVRT Coordinator, Titilola Vivour-Adeniyi, the seminar was put together against the backdrop of recent statistics, which revealed that 70 per cent of reported incidents of matrimonial abuses at DSVRT had already been reported at victims’ religious organisations where nothing was done. She said religious institutions were strategically positioned to prevent and properly respond to domestic violence, given that their teachings convey values and tolerant belief systems to their members. Speaking with The Guardian at the event, she said: “Members of religious institutions often have direct support or counseling relationships with their religious leaders. Religious leaders, therefore, are at a vantage position in serving as first responders to incidents of domestic and sexual violence in their respective places of worship.” Over 100 heads of counseling department personnel drawn from both Christian and Islamic faiths were selected for the workshop, where facilitators engaged them in various topical issues and lectures. Some of the sub-topics were titled, An Overview of Gender Based Violence: Need for Professional Pastoral Counseling Skills; Christian and Islamic Perspective on Gender Violence; as well as a critical consideration of the protection against Domestic Violence Law 2015 and their role in properly responding to domestic violence. Participants were encouraged to promote teachings that would provide helpful resources on domestic abuse through regular sermons, prayers, education and clerical care. The organisers urged that messages from religious institutions to their followers should include injunctions that indicate God’s love for all humans and the importance of mutual respect and submission between couples. The need for a proper referral pathway between religious institutions and the government was also constantly emphasised at the workshop, given that domestic and sexual violence remains a punishable crime in Lagos. Head of Counseling Unit, Believers Faith Incorporated, Rev. Fredrick Makonjuola, who participated in the workshop, praised the Lagos government for the initiative, urging the state to sustain the programme for continuous and inclusive engagement of all religious institutions in the campaign to totally eradicate domestic and sexual violence. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .