Lady about to apply a facial moisturizer | Photo: The Independent Despite making sure your skin is protected all day, it still isn’t enough care it needs. Taking several steps each day to apply skincare products might feel excessive, but, it is impossible to create a youthful complexion later in life, you can only maintain the one you have now. If you can commit to doing the bare minimum each morning and making that extra time investment into your skin, then maintaining an all-round routine shouldn’t be so hard. However, you’ll need to incorporate just a few more steps towards an ideal night routine in order to keep your complexion in great shape. Step 1: Remove or Wipe off makeup Your eye area is host to the most sensitive skin on your face and is also this first area to show ageing. Avoid having to scrub and tug at this gentle area by using a dissolving eye makeup remover and cotton pad or wool, few makeup-removing wipes are saturated with enough product to be effective in this way. Do not go to bed with your makeup on. Step 2:  Cleanser A water-based cleanser is necessary to lift and remove water-based free radical damaging agents at the end of the day. While using face wipes is essential, using a face cleasing lotion is also very important. It help clean off whatever makeup is left on your skin and dirt stored underneath the makeup, thereby allowing your skin pore to breathe. Step 3: Toner The unsung hero of the skincare regimen, toner. This is an essential part of any skin car routine as it is used for balancing skin pH and prepping skin for all of the ingredients and formulas that follow. After patting skin dry with a towel, apply a quarter-sized amount of product by pressing it onto your face, not swabbing it on with a cotton pad. Step 4: Use Serum Serums are the most potent and customizable step in your skincare routine, and, depending on what issues you’re having with your complexion. Always focus more on hydration and regeneration with your nighttime formula, while sticking with a Vitamin C or antioxidant-rich option during the day and a product that has the right amount of sunscreen to avoid burns. Step 5: Oil Applying an oil overnight will enable the skin to combat the overproduction of sebum and pore-clogging oil that leads to the breakouts, blackheads, and enlarged pores of combination and oily skin. Dry and sensitive skin will also greatly benefit from the additional moisture. Step 6: Night Cream The final step in your nightly routine should always be a viscous moisturizer to seal in the effects of all the hard work you have put into the previous steps. Sleeping masks and night creams are intended to still be lingering even when the day breaks, therefore also starting your morning routine with an oil based cleanser is an absolute must in order to begin your day with a properly cleansed skin.