 [FILES] Candidate of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Atiku Abubakar. Pius Utomi EKPEI / AFP  A statement by Mr. Paul Ibe, Media Adviser to Atiku Abubakar, said only an indifferent leader would have refused to react to the United Nations’ statistics, which revealed that 98 million Nigerians are living in multi-dimensional poverty. The statement said: “The United Nations reawakened Nigerians to the brutal reality of how poorly the Gen. Muhammadu Buhari administration has managed the nation’s economy. Like it is typical of General Buhari and his handlers, they didn’t make any comment about the scary statistics coming from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). “Perhaps, one reason they didn’t want to comment on the report is because it is factual. Nigerians, in the past four years, indeed live in multi-dimensional poverty. “Quite regrettably, too, the administration has been groping in the dark since 2015, the reason majority of Nigerians decided not to reward their failures during the February 23 presidential poll, consequently leading to the heist that characterised the conduct of that poll. “The other plausible reason they didn’t deem it fit to respond to the report is because Atiku Abubakar has yet to make a remark on the report. If the only reason the Buhari administration will react to the affliction it has brought on Nigerians is for Atiku to call the nation’s attention to how bad things have gone in the country, under the slumber of General Buhari, Atiku will more than always, be ready to stand and speak up for the millions of countrymen and women, who have become victims of Buhari’s misrule and grand cluelessness…” Noting that “a Commander-in-Chief, who fits the bill would not act unconcerned over reports from a reputable media organisation on welfare and wellbeing of troops at the frontline of combat, the statement said “as is usual with other dysfunctional aspects, the Buhari administration won’t even bat an eyelid over the damning report, as it prefers to live in denial, relying on propaganda, the only machine that they know how to operate without a glitch…” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .