The Christian Council of Nigeria (CCN), South-West Zone, has condemned the rising rate of insecurity in the country, saying the case is no longer whether the government is on top of the situation but now one of the global acknowledgements of near-zero security for Nigerians. The body in a communique signed by its Chairman, Rt. Revd. (Dr.) S. T. V. Adegbite, at the end of a meeting held at the Baptist Conference Centre, Abeokuta, said the security situation had got to a situation when people could not sleep with their two eyes closed in the country. “If it is not kidnapping, it will be banditry. If it is not herdsmen killing, it will be robbery attack or arguments of the nomenclature of the insecurity even among different government agencies. The recent murder of Mrs. Olufunke Olakunrin, nee Fasoranti, has yet added to already too many killings begging to be resolved. “While we join many in the land to commiserate with the family, we ask Christians to continue to pray for the peace of Nigeria and be watchful. The fact that the government is nursing the idea of deploying soldiers on major highways is a clear indication that things have indeed fallen apart. “The claim that these people are not Nigerians whereas they seem to have unfettered access to our country and continued to commit crimes with impunity carries serious political implications,” the statement read. CCN, therefore, demanded that the government should without delay put an end to all needless and avoidable killings in the country and fish out all perpetrators of and properly and timely bring them to book. It urged the Federal Government to review its current security architecture and put in place more pre-emptive, pragmatic and responsive security that citizens of the country can trust and gladly work with. It also called on the government to immediately seek help from within and outside the country and stop applying the same cure that has failed repeatedly. The body said the recent call by the Nigeria Medical Association (NMA) for urgent recruitment of health workers, upgrading of facilities and adequate provision of medical supplies to boost primary healthcare system is one that the government should take seriously to reduce avoidable deaths and health complications. It said that the current state of epileptic power supply and its socio-economic cost had continued to plague national life with no appreciable progress. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .