The Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has asked the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to probe Godswill Akpabio and Isa Misau over alleged diversion of constituency projects. “When members of the National Assembly divert constituency projects for personal use, the essence of such projects is defeated, and the integrity of the mechanism compromised,” SERAP deputy director, Kolawole Oluwadare said in a petition to ICPC chairman Bolaji Owasanoye and EFCC’s Ibrahim Magu. Oluwadare also copied the chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption Itse Sagay in the petition. ICPC Saturday said it recovered hospital equipment meant to serve as a constituency project at Mma Obot Foundation, allegedly owned by Akpabio, a former Akwa Ibom State governor and senator in the 8th National Assembly. Equipment recovered are dialysis machine, ECG monitor, oxygen regulator, anaesthetic machines, generators and other hospital equipment meant for a cottage hospital in Ukana, Essien Udim Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State. Also, the ICPC said recovered six tractors from a farm owned by Misau, a former senator who represented Bauchi Central in the Nigerian Senate. The tractors were meant for the use of farmers in six local government areas of Bauchi Central Senatorial District. The items were recovered during the ICPC’s ongoing tracking of constituency projects around the country. While the EFCC and ICPC are yet to interrogate the former lawmakers, Oluwadare posited that prosecuting Akpabio and Misau will serve as as a proof of consistency to curb corruption by the anti-graft agencies. He opined that the allegations of diversion of constituency projects by public officers have weakened public confidence in the effectiveness of the system to deliver essential public services to the citizens. Oluwadare stated that allegations of corruption in constituency projects would significantly contribute to impunity for grand corruption in Nigeria if it not curbed by the anti-graft agencies. He said corruption in the health sector and in the provision of support to farmers unfairly punishes the poor and deprives them of living standards and opportunities. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .