Sperm photo scientificamerican.com When it comes to male health, male fertility is highly important. Below are some foods to eat and things to know when it comes to male fertility: Tomatoes are one of the best food sources of the antioxidant lycopene. There have been several studies undertaken on lycopene and male fertility and it has been found to significantly improve the sperms ability to swim, its activity and structure.  Lycopene is more available in cooked or processed tomatoes. One of the simplest ways of improving sperm count and quality is to drink enough water. Semen is water based and increasing liquid consumption can help increase the ejaculate and improve sperm production.   Ensure it is more water that you are consuming because caffeine is a diuretic and soft drinks may be linked with lowering sperm counts. Dark chocolate is a rich source of the amino acid L-arginine which studies show can increase the volume of ejaculate and improve sperm count and motility. The darker the chocolate, the better. When you quit smoking, the chances of being very fertile increases. According to research, sitting for long periods of time can increase scrotal temperatures. If you have a desk job, or even a long commute to work, be sure to get up and walk around now and then. This is good for concentration, too, so you can boost your fertility and your energy all at once. Both keeping your legs tightly together to balance the laptop, and the heat generated by the laptop itself, can lead to higher than normal scrotal temperatures. Instead, place your laptop on a desk or table. One way to increase your fertility is to bring your weight to a healthier level. Being over or underweight can upset hormone balance, leading to lower sperm counts. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment. Read More: 5 Ways You Can Maintain Good Hygiene During Your Menstrual Period