Shell Petroleum Development Company The disbursement of over N2.45bn paid to Bonny kingdom by Shell for its operations of its Bonny crude oil and gas terminal has torn the Amanyanabo, Edward Asimini Dappa Pepple and some aboriginal families, Duawaris, apart. The Duawaris, in a petition to Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, his deputy and Shell, claimed that the disbursement of the money was shrouded in secrecy and warned of looming security crisis, if the king failed to make public details of the funds. The petition, endorsed by registered trustees of Duawaris, Reginald Cross Green and Elliott Dublin Green, said the money in question is traceable to the June 9, 2014, Supreme Court, Ruling in Suit No: SC.251/2011, between The Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited (SPDC) Vs. Dagogo William Brown and Ors. The duo explained that whereas N2455, 374, 015. 74bn was paid to Buoye-Omuso (Brown) Major House of Finima and Jumbo Major House of Grand Bonny Kingdom, with respect to SPDC’s operations at its Bonny Crude Oil and Gas Terminal, Grand Bonny, a larger part of the said sum was slated for the rest of the kingdom. “It is this portion of money meant for the rest of the kingdom that has been intentionally denied us. Please find attached the said Ruling of the Supreme Court and evidence of transfer of the said sum from First Bank Plc.,” they said.
The Duawaries said they were surprised that monies derived from multinational oil companies operating in ancient Bonny kingdom, founded and exclusively inhabited by their ancestors for over seven centuries were being shared to houses, groups and individuals without informing their traditional rulers. They said the king had so far not furnished the Duawaris with details of the said payment received from SPDC. Yet, under his leadership and watch, N20m was shared to individual houses and groups. An aide to the Amanyanabo, Ellys Greene, told The Guardian that the king was aware of the petition. He explained that the king had travelled abroad and that the disbursement case is in court. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .