 [FIL EPHOTO] Golf  During the week, the leadership of the prestigious Ibadan Golf Club (IGC) joined in celebrating Ufit Fly, describing the firm as one of the leaders in the quest for a new lease of life for golf in Nigeria. In his goodwill message to Absolute Success Travels, the owner of Ufit Fly brand, IGC Captain, Col. Ade Sunmonu thanked the firm’s chairman, Evangelist Ajibola Ogunkeyede for sponsoring most of the competitions organised in the club. “We at IGC are most grateful to Ufit Fly for its continuous support to the golfing activities here; the firm has shown great concern for the development and growth of golf, especially in this state. “Sponsorship is key to the success of any sporting event, and this firm has always been there for IGC,” Col. Sunmonu said. Speaking in the same vein, IGC’s lady captain, Sade Oni also commended the tour broker for its support to the lady section of IGC, especially during the recently held Lady Captain’s Open, “when the Ufit Fly donated free Kenya, Dubai and Oman tickets worth more than N1.2 million to winners in the tournament. We are most appreciative
for the good gesture.” Meanwhile, the firm has lined up sumptuous gifts to rewards their loyal clients and general public that had stood with it over the last 14 years. The anniversary promo will see sports lovers winning lofty prizes, including a brand new car, free trip to Dubai, Shopping vouchers, plasma television sets, generating sets, double-door refrigerators, free airtimes, cash prizes, among others. Also among those thrilled by the performance of Ufit Fly in the last 14 years is frontline Juju musician,
Sir Shina Peters, who described the unforgettable experiences he has been having since he started traveling in his expedition in the music industry Ufit Fly packages. The Afro Juju maestro explained the importance of taking some time out of his busy schedule to treat his soul to great leisure, saying it is the “secret of my youthful look at 62.” He urged upward mobile individuals and busy professionals to join him in another series of Dubai tour with Ufit Fly in September to share in his exploration of the beautiful Arab world.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .