Photo: Twitter/HQNigerianArmy IGP hosts 2019 INTERPOL week to brainstorm on global security threats 
Troops of the 21 Armoured Brigade, Operation Lafiya Dole, have repelled terrorists along the Maiduguri-Bama Road that serves several Borno State communities. The terrorists, before their repulsion, dug a trench across the road to prevent troops’ operation in the state. A statement by Spokesman of Operation Lafiya Dole, Col. Ado Isa, yesterday in Maiduguri, said: “In desperate efforts of the terrorists to frustrate ‘proactive and offensive actions,’ an ongoing counter-terrorism operation of troops thwarted their diversionary ploys to frustrate smooth movement of troops, logistics and commuters along the road.” He said that the mid-road crater was to plant an Improvised Explosive Device (IED) along the Maiduguri-Konduga-Bama highway. Also, the General Officer Commanding (GOC), 7 Division Nigerian Army, Maj.-Gen. Abdulmalik Biu, said: “Affected area of the road was scanned and cleared by the team of Engineers Ordinance Detachment to allow safe movement of troops and other road users.” He said the general area had rendered the terrorists incapable to operate freely, including other means of planting IEDs along roads. The GOC while charging the troops to remain more determined and committed in the operation to deny them freedom of action, urged members of the public to co-operate with the Army and other security agencies by reporting suspicious activities in their communities. Meanwhile, the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, will for the first time in Nigeria’s history host the INTERPOL Week to drive global collaboration towards effectively addressing prevailing and emerging crimes in Nigeria, Sahel region and other countries in the African Continent. The event, tagged “A Safer World,” will be held at the International Conference Centre, Abuja, from August 23-29, 2019. The INTERPOL Week will have in attendance the National Central Bureau (NCB) focal officers from the 194 INTERPOL member-countries, security experts from across the globe, other security and safety agencies in Nigeria. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .