Man tired of addiction Many people are suffering from different types of addiction and they find it hard to quit. However, people can also overcome addictions just like other psychological issues. Addiction is psychological and when people tackle it like the problem that it is, it becomes easy to overcome. Below are some ways to overcome addiction: The first step to take is to write out the harmful effects of addiction. Take out a pen and a piece of paper and brainstorm a list that includes all the negative effects you’ve experienced since your addiction started. Address what made you get addicted to that particular thing or situation, how it all started and why. If the reason is still as applicable as it was when you started, then the reason itself should be tackled. Also, think about how your addiction has affected your physical health. Are you at greater risk for getting cancer, heart disease, or another illness as a result of your addiction? Maybe the addiction has already taken a noticeable physical toll. List the ways in which it has hurt you mentally. Are you embarrassed about your addiction? In many cases addictions lead to shame and embarrassment, as well as depression, anxiety, and other mental and emotional issues. After the first step, make a list of the positive changes you want to happen, think about how much your life will improve once you’ve kicked the habit. Create a picture of your life post-addiction. Is it the financial freedom or the better relationship you will have with people? Is it better health habit or excellent human relationship? Think about the life you want and work towards having that perfect life by quitting your addiction. Talk to someone you can trust to help you through the addiction, it could be a psychiatrist or even your religious leaders. Someone that you know will be keen on seeing you become a better person, be as honest as possible and work together with the person you discussed with towards overcoming your addiction. Having a list of solid reasons to quit will help you stick to your plan in the long run. Your reasons for quitting must be more important to you than continuing your addictive behavior. This mental hurdle is tough, but it’s a necessary first step to quitting any addiction. No one can make you quit but yourself. Write down the true, solid reasons you’re stopping this habit and follow through with them.