Kids at the JJT Park, Alausa, Ikeja yesterday. PHOTO: ISAAC TAIWO Hundreds of fun-seekers, particularly children, yesterday besieged the Johnson Jakande Tinubu (JJT) Park and Ndubuisi Kanu Park in Ikeja, Lagos State, as well as Millenium Park, Magic Land, Abuja yesterday to celebrate the Eid-el-Kabir. People of all ages were seen catching fun with various games and eye-catching activities, while others were busy entertaining themselves with foods and drinks. A trader, Mr. Abdu Ganiu, said there was every reason to thank God for this year, believing that next year would be better. He urged Nigerians to put their trust in God and not in man, whether president or governor. On the economy, he admonished Nigerians to spend wisely whatever they have and avoid unnecessary extravagance. One of the fun-seekers, Mrs. Lara Omoziku, who came in company of her children, said the holiday was a moment to spend time with her family. “I have been looking forward to this season. It is the only period I have a nice time with my family members and relations because of my busy work schedule. Mr. Chido Chukwuma, a businessman, described the serene environment as good for the health. “I was looking forward to the break so I can get deserved rest from the stress of work. Coming to the park is perfect for me to appreciate nature and the environment. It is so good for the soul,” he said. In Abuja, staple food vendors at the Millennium Park witnessed high patronage as fun-seekers were seen displaying their wares. Mrs. Fatima Usman, a mother of four, who came with her children to the park said: “Although the times are hard, I decided to come with my children to catch fun because they are on holidays. “From my past experience, I can say that Millennium Park has a huge number of visitors this year than the previous two years. This is an indication that everyone, whether young or old wants to catch fun to ease away the economic and other pressures will are facing in this country.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .