 Prince Dapo Abiodun of Ogun state. Photo/Twitter/dabiodunMFR  The Caretaker Committee, led by the Chairman, Yemi Sanusi, allegedly stormed the secretariat, located at Iyana Mortuary in Abeokuta, the state capital, at 10:00 a.m., chased away the staff and carted away vital documents belonging to the party. It would be recalled that the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party led by the National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, had dissolved the State Executive of the party, led by Derin Adebiyi and set up the Caretaker Committee. But the state party secretariat had been under the control of Adebiyi’s faction, which is loyal to the immediate past governor of the state, Senator Ibikunle Amosun. Sanusi, while addressing journalists after taking over the secretariat, explained that the party members were there to assess the condition of the facility, saying the party was set to start work immediately. He expressed displeasure over the present condition of the secretariat, assuring that the party would give it a befitting facelift, in preparation for the forthcoming local council elections. Sanusi insisted that the take-over was in order as the party was expected to swing into action now that the election was over and a new government in place. But in a swift reaction, Adebiyi described the move as an “ugly development”, saying that it was condemnable. He vowed to reclaim the secretariat through all the legal means possible. Adebiyi, who addressed a press conference, insisted that he remained the authentic and legal chairman of the party in the state.
  He stressed that he and other members of the executive were duly elected at the party’s congress held on May 19, 2018. Adebiyi said: “The Governor’s band of marauders arrived the secretariat in a war-like manner and were ready for a showdown. They were accompanied by a detachment of fierce-looking mobile police officers. “They damaged all properties at the secretariat and illegally broke into offices and carted away vital documents. Some of the destroyed materials were dumped at the back of the kiosks beside the party secretariat. They drove out members of the staff of the secretariat and locked up the place. “You will recall that the illegal occupation of the Secretariat took place despite the fact that the State Executive Committee (SEC) of the party under my leadership had gone to court to challenge the illegal dissolution of the State Executive Committee by the Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee (NWC) at the Federal High Court Abuja in Suit No: CV/363/2018.” He added: “Their action is condemnable and contravenes the extant law of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and that the constitution of our dear party. “We shall take all legal means possible in taking back our secretariat. We are products of a congress on May 19, 2018, and those causing this problem also took that part in this congress. We have refused to join issues with them. We don’t want to engage in violence as they have done.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .