 Veteran highlife musician Bright Chimezie crowning winner of the Hi-Life Fest 2019 in Enugu  An evening of electrifying performances, the evening saw veteran singer Onyeka Onwenu, the Limpopo master KCEE, and indigenous rapper and brand ambassador Phyno thrilled the audience from their rich repertoire. It was cheers all the way as the stars, particularly Onwenu, belted popular tune that took guests down memory lane. These superstars were not the only artistes to grace the stage, as the previous winners of Hi-Life Fest took the stage to delight the guests in attendance. Chibest David and Dons Ifeanyi provided the perfect precedent for the night, as their performances reminded all in attendance of the immense talent of these young Highlife talents. Meanwhile, all four finalists brought their A-game as they attempted to stake their claim on the grand prize. Frank Onyeka, Chimaroke Chimex, Chijioke Charles, and Umunnukwe Nwanja are some of the most talented budding highlife talents in Nigeria and it was a stunning showpiece, watching these guys strut their stuff in a bid to be crowned champions on the night. Kicking off the guest performances on the night was KCEE. The electric singer showed just why he is a fan favorite in the East, with some impeccable stagecraft and impressive dance moves. Following up his performance was veteran singer, Onyeka Onwenu. Onyeka once again proved her legendary status with a performance, which was full of zest and some sultry singing. It was truly a sight to behold. Wrapping up the night was Phyno. The multi-talented rapper rounded off the night with a track-list of all his chart-topping singles. His performance was practically a sing-along with the fans, as both he and the guests in attendance both had the time of their lives during his powerful performances. While all the side-attractions were quite remarkable, the night belonged to the winners in both the dance and music category. Ofu Obi dance troupe walked home with N2million, while Chijioke Charles earned the mouth-watering sum of N5million. It’s hard to imagine a more exciting conclusion to the 2019 edition of Hi-Life Fest, and it will be exciting to see how the talents who have emerged from this platform continue to further their craft and become established acts. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .