Jogging is a complete workout and also serves to prepare the body for an intense workout and other physical activities. Below are some health benefits of jogging: Jogging Stands Out as Best Exercise to Combat 'Obesity Genes,' Says Study. Jogging Stands Out as Best Exercise to Combat 'Obesity Genes,' Says Study Published in the journal 'PLOS Genetics,' the study analyzed the data of 18,000 Taiwanese adults, ages 30 to 70.  Researchers connected the genomes of participants with the types of exercise they performed regularly.  Jogging was revealed as having the strongest anti-obesity effect. Those who had obesity genes and jogged showed a tendency for lower BMI, body fat and a smaller hip circumference. Study Authors, via Live Science Other exercises with similar effects include long yoga sessions, mountain climbing, both walking and power walking and some types of dancing. The study was unable to determine the effects of some activities such as weight training, basketball and tennis. Apart from jogging being the best tool for weight loss, it is also important for improving bone strength. When you start jogging, the bones experience some amount of stress and load. Jogging prepares the bones to bear this additional stress which it starts to endure on a regular basis. Jogging strengthens the bones and prevents bone trauma and injuries. Jogging is very important in keeping the mind healthy. When jogging, the body releases hormones called endorphins that help lift the spirit. It reduces stress and tension and also clears the mind of unnecessary thoughts. This increases the positivity thought level which helps the mind stay healthy. Jogging promotes not just physical but also mental well-being. Jogging makes people stronger by removing fatigue, boosting the production of white blood cells in the body and building up immunity. This stimulates the production of lymphocytes and macrophages that combat infection in the body. It helps to fight viral infections like flu and common cold and also some bacterial infections.  The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.