Vice chancellor, Novena University, Amai, Delta State, Prof. Godwin Nduka has urged parents to partner with their children’s institutions for feedbacks on performances. Nduka, in his keynote address at the sixth anniversary of the school’s cultural day said a situation where some parents cared less after dropping off their children in school without finding out how they are faring is no longer acceptable. Prof. Nduka, who restated the institution’s zero tolerance for cultism, said being in a rural environment has helped the institution to tackle the menace. “It is one of the reasons that stands us out from others. Which means our graduates know exactly what it is to also reside in the village setting. It has also helped us to check the infiltration of bad people, because for us here the issue of cultism is that of zero tolerance. He is of the firm belief that with parents showing more than a passing glance to their children’s academic activities. “My message to parents is that they should cooperate with us, because some of them, after throwing their children at us go to sleep, which is not right. They should keep in touch so we can give them feedbacks on what their children are up to in school.” On the event, the vice chancellor said, “The essence of this annual cultural day underlines the reason we deemed it fit to celebrate the event, because we have a nation that is a melting pot of different cultures and groups. So we have a responsibility to ensure that they know and appreciate themselves. “And we are very happy that the regulatory agency for Nigerian universities, made it compulsory that this course, Nigerian people and Culture, is featured in the general study programme of every institution so that every student that passes through tertiary institutions would be in a position to appreciate the culture of other groups. On the uniqueness of the university, the VC said, “From the start, we stand for innovations and uniqueness, which typifies the unique courses we run here. We remain the first institution to offer Intelligence and Security Studies, up to PhD level”.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .