 Buhari. Photo: TWITTER/ASOROCK  According to a report, most Government Ministries, Departments, and Agencies (MDAs) were found to have been involved in financial wrongdoings despite the government’s avowed anti-corruption stand and campaign. Coming from no less an office than that of the Auditor-General of the Federation, there is every reason for Nigerians to be worried about the fidelity and health of the country’s fiscal system.
 
There is also the need to be concerned about the feasibility of the government’s anti-graft management model. This is instructive especially given the various types and numbers of the infractions and non-compliances with financial regulations that were highlighted to have taken place under the watchful eyes of the senior public servants and indeed loud anti-corruption crusaders.  In fact, these problems exist calls to serious questions about the existence of sanctions and their dutiful and diligent enforcement against poor performance in government establishments. It is disheartening that this magnitude of financial mismanagement is going on despite the anti-corruption policy of the current administration.
 
Therefore, the chief executive of the federation should be deeply concerned about this development. The presidency should use the policy support instrument in the bureaucracy of his office, notably the office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation to mandate all government institutions and organs to update their financial affairs within a given time frame failing which they must be subjected to serious sanctions.
 
Second, the need for a total reform of the government’s financial system including laws, processes, procedures, administration, and management, has become apparent. The country expects nothing less from the president to redeem and to prevent further and perhaps, most unpalatable indictments from the Auditor-General of the Federation.
 
Meanwhile, the irregularities and failure of governance in this regard should be blamed on the Public Accounts Committee of the National Assembly. It is their constitutional responsibility to ensure that public accounts are up-to-date. There is, therefore, a sense in which it can be said that the Public Accounts Committees conventionally headed by members of the minority party or opposition actually failed the nation, in this regard. The law mandates them to hold a public hearing on audit reports as submitted by the office of the Auditor General of the Federation. When last did the Public Accounts Committee carry out this constitutional duty? To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .