Technology no longer seems like daring immobile machines that make weird noises. With each advancement in technology; tech firms and enthusiasts alike always look for new means of incorporating technology in our daily life. The tech trend in recent times is wearable technology. Wearable technologies are smart electronic devices that can be incorporated into clothing or worn on the body as implants or accessories. Now, researchers in Singapore have invented a 'smart' cloth they say can boost signals and save battery life on wireless devices such as headphones and smartwatches. If you're the sort of person who is always running out of battery on your smartwatch or headphones, you might want to buy some new clothes. Researchers at the University of Singapore are calling this "smart" clothing and they say it could save on that precious battery. Because the invention allows radio waves like Bluetooth and Wi-Fi to glide across the clothing between wearable devices instead of radiating outwards in all directions. Assistant Professor, National University of Singapore, Institute For Health Innovation & Technology, John Ho said: "This T-shirt has certain patterns on it that we are calling metamaterial textiles. What they do is they guide wireless signals that are emitted very close to my body by regular devices that we have around us like smartphones or smartwatches." That means sensors and wearable technology such as Apple Watches and AirPods can establish stronger connections faster and save energy. They also claim it can have security benefits, keeping our sensitive information safer, by keeping the signals close to the body and away from potential eavesdroppers on the radio waves. Assistant Professor, National University of Singapore, Institute For Health Innovation & Technology, John Ho said: "So kind of the two, two main populations we're hoping would benefit from this clothing, would be athletes, who have to wear special clothing to kind of, perform. We'd be able to measure the signals during performance, we'd be able to see things that they're doing, that are currently kind of invisible -- like, what is their heart rate, what is their blood pressure, as they go through their motions. And the other one would be patients in the hospital -- they all have to wear special gowns in the hospital right now. Imagine giving those gowns certain functions, so we can measure, kind of their heart rate, blood pressure, their vital signs, as they are inside the hospital." The Singapore team have obtained a provisional patent on the design of the textile. It can be washed, dried, and even ironed just like normal clothing. And it costs just a few dollars per meter to produce.