Former Nigerian Senator Samuel Anyanwu, his mother Virginia Anyanwu and 11 other ward officials have been suspended indefinitely by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Imo State. Anyanwu, who represented Owerri Senatorial District in the 8th National Assembly, was suspended by his ward, Amaimo in Ikeduru Local Government Area of Imo State. His mother- Virginia was the party’s Woman Leader in the local government. In a letter dated 31st July, 2019, and addressed to the Ikeduru LGA chairman of the party, the ward executive committee said the decision was based on the recommendation of the committee inaugurated by the ward to look into the allegations of anti-party activities against the senator and the others. In the report submitted by an investigative committee headed by Chijioke Anyanwu and Felix Orji, Chairman and Secretary respectively, the suspended persons were accused of canvassing for votes and voted for the opposition in virtually all elections in disregard to party directives and objectives. It therefore recommended that,”In line with the party’s constitution, we hereby recommend that section 58 91) of offences and sanctions be evoked against these officials who, according to our investigation and deductions have contravened the above section ranging from sub-section (a-m) and are liable to sanctions under section 59(1) of the party’s constitutions.” Other members suspended are former State Legal Adviser Uche Igbokwe, ward chairman Joseph Ugwulebo, ward treasurer Patrick Onyejiuwa and the ward Women leader Paulina Onumajuru. Others are the ward provost Anthony Anyanwu, assistant financial secretary Larry Omekannaya, Reginald Onuoha, auditor Godson Anyanwu and Chidi Nwaigwe, Vitalis Anyanwu and Magnus Okoro who are former ward officials. When contacted, Anyanwu described the suspension as the handiwork of mischief makers, stressing that with his status in the party, the ward does not have the power to suspend him from the party. “The party at the state, zonal and national level are not aware of that. The fact is that I am a national officer of the party and even the state party cannot suspend me without the knowledge of the national. So I enjoin people to disregard it as it is merely the handiwork of mischief makers,” Anyanwu said. Prior to the suspension, Anyanwu lost at the Supreme Court where he challenged the emergence of the state governor, Emeka Ihedioha as the party’s candidate for the 2019 governorship election. Also, it was recently rumoured that the former national lawmaker had concluded plans with his loyalists to defect to the All Progressives Congress (APC). He denied the rumours, insisting that he remained a bonafide member of the PDP.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .