Delta State Governor, H.E Sen. Dr. Ifeanyi Arthur Okowa. Photo/Twitter/GovIfeanyiOkowa Don charts way forward for Abia
Abia State commemorated its creation 28 years ago on August 27, 1991 yesterday with Governor Okezie Ikpeazu renewing his pledge to serve transparently and honestly with greater commitment and sincerity of purpose. In his statewide broadcast, Ikpeazu who is the state’s fourth democratically elected governor after Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, Senators Orji Uzor Kalu and Theodore Orji, said the state has made progress steadily in spite of the challenges. Ikpeazu noted that he would use his second term in office to consolidate on his first term successes and ensure that he completes his second term on a strong note. “This administration has over 95 on-going road projects across the state, which would bear our Cement Rigid Pavement Technology signatures. “Workers in Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) have been paid their salaries up to July 2019, hence they are not owed arrears. “Those owed salaries are mostly staff of agencies that receive monthly subventions from government and who are expected to manage their affairs, including paying salaries.” His Delta State counterpart, Ifeanyi Okowa, declared his resolve to ensure that he builds on his achievements and those of his predecessors towards a stronger Delta. He said this would be based on equity and justice in the distribution of infrastructure projects, while promising to ensure the continued unity among all ethnic groups in the state. Okowa, who spoke during a church service to mark the 28 years of the state’s creation in Asaba yesterday, warned commissioners and other political appointees to shun eye service and rumour mongering so as to serve the state better. He also offered automatic employment to 14 unemployed members of the State House Church Choir, while also assuring that pensioners’ welfare remains a top priority to the state government. He expressed appreciation to the youths for making the state governable and women for their effective prayers that see the state through in all difficult situations, adding, “On our part, we realize the need for us to continue to work hard and ensure that we remain just in equitable distribution of infrastructure across the state. A greater Delta can only be possible when we unite and are willing to contribute in our little ways towards building that Delta of our dream. There is need for us to know that with partnership we can achieve more. And if all of us agree within ourselves for a great state we can build a better Delta”. Delta State Chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), in his sermon from Psalm 118: 2, 4, admonished commissioners and other political appointees to shun rumour mongers, as kings don’t rule without facts. Meanwhile, keynote speaker at Abia State’s anniversary celebration in Umuahia, Professor Maduebibisi Ofo Iwe has said that in its bid to move forward its charter of understanding and equity should continue to be its compass in the leadership of the state. He stressed that this suggestion should include the state holding unto its epithet of ‘God’s Own State.’ Iwe, who is Deputy Vice Chancellor, Academics, Michael Okpara University of Agriculture, Umudike, described Abia as a haven of opportunities, saying that this implies that the state has huge advantaged with its many industrial sites. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .