   Also in Tsayau village of Jibia local council of the state, the orgy of killings reigned, as the marauders mowed down four indigenes and injured several.Residents, who spoke to The Guardian on the phone, narrated that the bandits came in their dozens and were armed with sophisticated weapons. “They came on motorcycles, shot sporadically into the air, rustled animals, kidnapped some people and destroyed properties,” one of them said.He feared that the casualty figure could rise, as some of those residents who fled into the forest could meet their end there. The eyewitness said the attackers rustled animals and shot four people dead.He added that the indigenes, angered by the frequent attacks in the area, took the bodies in a chartered vehicle to the Emir of Katsina, Alhaji Abdulmumini Kabir Usman, whom the witness, noted was out of town when they arrived the palace. Similarly, Zakka village in Safana council area equally came under siege with the attackers freely looting homes, rustling animals and abducting residents, mostly women.It was learnt that the bandits kidnapped the mother of Ahmed Zakka, the immediate past Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs in the Governor Aminu Bello Masari administration. They also reportedly whisked away the ex-commissioner’s younger sister and niece.A resident, while confirming the wee-hour attack, added that sympathisers had been trooping into Zakka’s home over the incident.Efforts to confirm some of the incidents from the police authorities were futile as at press time, as calls and messages put through to dedicated lines were not acknowledged. But confirming the Tsayau village’s invasion which happened 3.30p.m. on Sunday and the third of such in the area in recent times, the acting spokesman for the state police command, ASP Abdullahi Anas Gazewa, stated that four people lost their lives while four cows were rustled. His words: “The Divisional Police Officer (DPO) of Jibiya indicated that on 18/08/19 at about 1530hours, a group of armed bandits invaded Tsayu village of Jibiya LGA and carted away four cows.	“The villagers mobilised and followed the bandits into the forest, ostensibly to recover the animals.“The bandits killed four of the villagers and escaped into the thick hilly mountainous forest. “However the command wishes to advise the people to always employ synergy and cooperation with security agencies in dealing with the menace of cattle rustlers, kidnapping, armed banditry and all forms of criminality in our society.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .