• Igbo group apologises to Nigerians over IPOB’s action in Germany
Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council (OYC) has called on the Igbo in Japan to resist the planned protest by the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) against President Muhammadu Buhari, as it will portray them as terrorists before the international community. The national president, Okechukwu Isiguzoro, stated in Abakaliki yesterday that apart from portraying the Igbo as terrorists, the planned protest would further endanger the lives and property of the Igbo in the North. “We are calling on the Igbo planning any violent protest in Japan or planned arrest of President Muhammadu Buhari to put off such senseless efforts, as it will endanger the lives and property of the Igbo living in the 19 Northern states, apart from the risk of being jailed or deported from Japan. “Most of those sponsoring the planned attack or trying to carry out the assault on President Buhari do not have any investment in Nigeria. The Igbo are wiser than yesterday. “Many of the people staging the protests should remember that they are breadwinners of their families in Nigeria. We should vigorously defend our land while building bridges across the Niger,” the youths stated. They urged IPOB and its supporters not to worsen the situation in the country by introducing violent protests. Meanwhile, South East Economic Revival and Development Movement (SERDM) has apologised to Nigerians, especially President Muhammadu Buhari and erstwhile Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu, over the recent outing of POB in Nuremberg, Germany. Addressing a press conference yesterday in Abuja, the president, Obumneme Udeh, described the outing as denigration of the Igbo nation by miscreants. Ekweremadu was recently attacked, physically, by suspected IPOB members in Nuremberg when he visited the city for a new yam festival organised by the Igbo community there. Many reasons were adduced for the attack, including that he wore a Nigerian coat of arms-themed attire for the event attended by suspected IPOB members, who were unhappy with the Nigerian government. After the event, IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, warned Buhari not to near Japan where he’s billed to attend the 7th Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD), which begins today. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .