FCT Minister, Muhammed Musa Bello • Aregbesola pledges reforms at interior ministry
• Cleric urges selflessness, patriotism, diligence Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Muhammad Musa Bello has warned heads of Departments Agencies as well as the six council area chairmen to braise up for better performances or be shown the way out. His words: “This time around underperformance will not be tolerated from any staff member or quarters. The duty of building the nation’s capital that will meet up the dreams of the founding fathers should be seen as a collective task where everyone must sit up and work.” Bello, who resumed duty last week for another term of four years, gave the warning yesterday when Permanent Secretary of the ministry, Sir Chinyeaka Ohaa, officially presented with handover notes in Abuja. He assured that his second term as FCT minister would be tough for those who would fail to live up to expectations, stressing: “I used my first tenure to persuade cabinet members to work, yet there was no much visible or positive results from them, this must stop.” He commended President Muhammadu Buhari for reappointing him minister of the FCT, pointing out that those who would find favour from him should deliver in line with government’s mandate. Besides, Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbeshola has promised to reform all the paramilitary formations under his purview for improved internal security. Besides, he said improved welfare of workers would top his priority as a measure towards actualising his vision for the ministry. He spoke yesterday in Abuja, while taking over the affairs of the ministry from the Permanent Secretary, Mrs. Georgina Ehuriah, where he acknowledged the enormous internal security challenges facing the nation. In a speech he titled: We Must Set Forth Now, the former Osun State Governor commended the efforts of former ministers and staff of the ministry for their service to the nation over the years. He noted that without a strong immigration service, there would be anarchy and lawlessness in the land due to foreigners’ influx in the country.
Aregbesola revealed that he would focus on peculiar security challenges, which he said comprised banditry, kidnapping and armed robbery, adding: “Security, economy and transparency are the cardinal policies of my administration.” Meanwhile, Catholic Archbishop of Lagos, Most Reverend Alfred Adewale Martins, has admonished old and new ministers to serve with selflessness, diligence and patriotism in their ministries to help move the nation forward. He stated this while admonishing old end new ministers who were assigned portfolios preparatory to commencement of work. Martins, who spoke through his Acting Director of Social Communications, Lagos Archdiocese, Reverend Father Anthony Godonu, congratulated the new ministers on their appointments and reminded them that they have a great responsibility ahead of them, as the country was experiencing difficult times. While urging President Muhammadu Buhari and his ministers to avail themselves of wise counsel from well-meaning Nigerians irrespective of the source, he also advocated restoration of Federal character in the country, commonly referred to as restructuring. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .