Interswitch Group founder Mitchell Elegbe while speaking at the second edition of the InterswitchSPAK Masterclass in Lagos Interswitch Group founder Mitchell Elegbe said that one way to fight corruption is to have the mindset of equity. He stated that corruption and poverty go hand-in-hand. Elegbe made the remark while speaking at the second edition of the InterswitchSPAK Masterclass in Lagos. He spoke on the topic: ‘Can I trust you?’ He explained the relationship between equality and equity, noting that we do not all have equal strengths, opportunities and privileges. However, he asserted that with a sense of equity, the more privileged would share with the less privileged. “While it is wrong for the less privileged to demand equity as a right – as that is extortion – it is important that the privileged have a mindset of equity, that allows them to share from their abundance. It is with this mindset of equity that prosperous communities are built and the fight against corruption is won,” Elegbe said. He opined that to become successful in life, one has to be trustworthy. Elegbe said that being trusted goes hand-in-hand with trustworthiness as a culmination of ability, integrity and benevolence. The Masterclass is part of the InterswitchSPAK Switch-a-Future project, a CSR initiative of the company focused on driving increased interest in the study of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) subjects among Senior Secondary School students across Africa. Participants at the Masterclass were made up of the top 81 students out of the over 13,322 students from various private and public secondary schools across the 36 states of the federation, including the Federal Capital Territory, who wrote the National Qualifying Examinations in April. The participants also included the 81 finalists aged between 14 and 17 years, students from Slum2School Innovation lab. Other speakers at the Masterclass were Dr Ola Orekunrin-Brown, MD / Founder, Flying Doctors Nigeria, who spoke on the topic ‘Entrepreneurship – Creating Sustainable Impact by Solving Social Problems’. Dr. Brown shared the story of how she started Flying Doctors and the challenges she surmounted. She reiterated the need for basic financial literacy for budding entrepreneurs. Also, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Industry, Trade, and Investment Dr Jumoke Oduwole who was represented by Ayokunnu Ojeniyi, Project Manager, Enabling Business Environment Secretariat, Office of the Vice-President spoke on the topic ‘Collaborative Approach to Social Innovation’ and why it was important to think creatively and critically in addressing social problems. Earlier, Group Head, Corporate Segment, Corporate Marketing, at Interswitch, Enyioma Anaba, said that the Masterclass was an integral part of the InterswitchSPAK project and was designed to inspire the young people to contribute to solving Africa’s many problems. “We brought together these 81 brilliant young minds to draw from the experiences and insights of accomplished thought leaders, thinkers and professionals who are leading lights in their respective spheres of influence and who are practical advocates of innovation, as a platform for social and economic development,” Anaba said. “We hope that the interactions during the sessions will provide them with the right mental and emotional foundations upon which to build their character for the long haul.” The Masterclass was a full-day of knowledge sharing and engagement session and had these inspiring and successful men and women in our society sharing their experiences across the school, work and family life. Interswitch Group Chief Marketing and Communications Officer, Cherry Eromosele, said the organisation remains committed the interest of the young African talents at heart. “For Africa’s youth to succeed in today’s knowledge-based economy, they need to acquire the right skill sets; their minds need to be re-engineered and reconciled with STEM education as well as introduced to other softer skills which are not readily taught in the classrooms. “At Interswitch, we are creating a platform that allows them to not only compete within a job market that is globalized, but to become catalysts for the creation of job markets in themselves”. The InterswitchSPAK Switch-a-Future project was launched in Kenya and the inaugural Masterclass for the finalists held in Nairobi on August 2, 2019.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .