No one likes dealing with bad stress but it’s an inevitable part of life.  In searching for tips and advice on how to handle stress at work, you would come across many that assume you are the boss or at least someone powerful in your organisation so you can do as you please. Although everyone handles stress differently, there are some common patterns to the various methods of coping. These are some tips on how to handle stress. Stressed man | Imali Matters For career people with children, the stress of the day starts the minute they wake up, from scrambling to get the kids fed and off to school, dodging traffic and combating road rage, they are already stressed before the day fully begins and more reactive to stress at work. Starting off your days with things like good nutrition, proper planning, and a positive attitude can help the stress of the workplace rolling off your back more easily. Conflict takes its toll on both your physical and emotional health, try to avoid it even though conflict among co-workers is so difficult to escape, but it is best to avoid conflict at work as much as possible. This means staying away from gossip, don’t share too many of your personal opinions about religion and politics, and try to steer clear of colourful office humor. If after all of this, conflict still finds you, learn how to deal with it appropriately. It doesn’t matter if you are a naturally disorganized person, plan ahead in order to decrease stress at work. Keeping yourself organized means avoiding the negative effects of clutter, and being more efficient with your work. Your body is not a machine and you need to take time to relax every opportunity you get. You can get some exercise during your lunch break and perhaps take short exercise breaks throughout the day. This can help you blow off steam, lift your mood, and get into better shape. Listen to soothing music on your way home as listening to music brings many benefits and can offer an effective way to relieve stress after work. Your perspective of stress matter because at the end of the day, it is subjective to your interpretation of events. Learn to take a more objective view as you would be less likely to take things personally.