Larry Gaga is back with his new single ‘In My Head’ which features Nigerian reggae-dancehall singer Patoranking. As a musical gift to fans for his birthday, Gaaga shares a heartfelt dedication to loved ones lost in the release of his new collaborative single and video. The multi-talented music producer releases this track as a follow up to the smash hit Low which featured Wizkid. The emotive gift showcases Patoranking’s harmonious vocals on a choir-filled chorus; making In My Head a Heavenly sing-along and celebration of life. Doubling up the single release with visuals directed by Moe Musa, In My Head sees Gaaga and Patoranking sing through the raining pain of losing a loved one and being left behind with endless lifetime memories. “Over the years, I’ve lost loved ones whom I remember regularly. I wanted to channel that into a song dedication, as a way of honoring them, and no artist other than Pato[ranking] came to mind” said Gaaga on the making of In My Head. He went onto say, “Releasing In My Head for my birthday, is the perfect way to celebrate life with my fans.” The track was released via Instagram with a caption that read;
“It’s my Birthday weekend and I want to share good music with everyone a day after my birthday
Dedicating this to friends/family we’ve lost, friends that that are no longer here to witness the good works of our hand

Larry Gaaga x @patorankingfire ”   It’s my Birthday weekend and I want to share good music with everyone a day after my birthday Dedicating this to friends/family we’ve lost,friends that that are no longer here to witness the good works of our hand  Larry Gaaga x @patorankingfire  @urfreshtv Drops 26/08/19 A post shared by  Larry Gaaga (@larrygaaga) on Aug 23, 2019 at 9:41am PDT  The new track is one of a handful to be released from Larry Gaga, since signing his new deal with Universal Music Group Nigeria. In My Head is guaranteed to be another hit to add to Gaaga’s ever growing list of successes. Listen to ‘In My Head’ via YouTube below; 