 Dapo Abiodun  In other words, the Ogun State governor was emphatic when he read a riot act to criminals who might be planning to carry out their ignoble activities in any part of the state. Governor Abiodun, who did not hide his aversion for criminals who have been marauding and terrorising people all over the place, seized the unique Sallah event to pass his message when he played host to leaders of the Muslim community in Remoland at Iperu, his hometown. Abiodun’s avowal to protect of life and property of the people under his charge is viewed generally as the perfect elixir for these troubling times. With growing insecurity across the nation, made more strenuous by the incidence of banditry and kidnapping, many a Nigerian now lives perennially in fear. From the far North to the edge of the South, and indeed the Southwest, where life and living used to be luxuriant, the situation has changed drastically. There is hardly a day that the news media would not be awash with reports of either death from banditry, unknown gunmen or kidnappings on the nation’s highways. Ogun had its own share recently when some hoodlums struck on the highways in the state. Seven persons were abducted. Though the victims, with the concerted efforts of security agencies in the state, have now regained their freedom, the Ogun governor had referenced those incidents in his response to the Muslim leaders’ apprehension and vowed that such incidents would never be allowed in his domain again. “You will recall that there were two cases of kidnapping along Lagos-Ibadan expressway, involving seven victims in all. That was between the 23rd and 24th of July, and another one on Thursday, 1st of August, 2019, along Sagamu-Benin-Ore expressway, involving five victims, including Deaconess Chidinma Ebeleji of the Redeemed Christian Church of God,” Abiodun recalled, while appreciating the Ogun State Police Command and the state commissioner of Police, Mr. Bashir Makama and the state Director of the Department of Security Services for their professionalism in ensuring that those abducted were rescued unhurt.
 
“However, we give all the glory to the Almighty God that the quick intervention of the men and officers of our security agencies have brought this to a positive conclusion. All victims of the two cases have been rescued unhurt, while most of the suspect have been arrested… “Distinguished ladies and gentlemen, these incidents are a test of our resolve and we have demonstrated in clear terms our strong commitments to ensuring that our state will continue to be secure for our people and all those who have made our dear state their home… “Let me state in clear terms that no part in Ogun State is a safe haven for criminals and criminality in whatever form. Whether on the Lagos- Ibadan, Sagamu- Benin-Ore, Abeokuta- Sango- Lagos expressways or even our township roads or interstate roads, we shall smoke them out. We shall arrest them and hand them over to [face] justice,” Abiodun had vowed, declaring Ogun a no-go area for men of the underworld and their collaborators while also giving a strong warning to landlords and those who might give them cover. “Let me use this opportunity to sound a very strong note of warning to our landlords and any property owner that, any property or facility, found to be serving as a hideout to criminals will not only be taken over, but we will also demolish it. The landlords will also be arrested and handed over for prosecution for harbouring criminals. We will consider and treat them as accomplices.”  With that assurance and insurance of safety from the governor, the Muslim leaders expressed satisfaction with the government of the state, acknowledging the efforts that had been made so far and promising to take the message of war against criminals by the governor to the people. Sheikh Abdukadiri, who delivered a sermon on the occasion, urged the people to support the Abiodun-led government, which he described as the will of God.
 
Onasanya works with the Ogun State information ministry  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .