 Abiola Ajimobi  Olujimi, who argued that the accreditation for the election was flawed and therefore invalidated its result, stated this during the adoption of the final written addresses at the tribunal. The tribunal adopted the final written addresses of the APC and three respondents – INEC, Balogun, and PDP. The three-man panel chaired by Justice Anthony Akpovi, however, said the court would announce the date for ruling on the petition by APC challenging the result of the ballot declared by INEC. Leading the APC’s charge, Olujimi argued that a flawed accreditation in several units across all nine councils that made up Oyo South was tantamount to a flawed election. Relying on Section 137 of the Electoral Act, Olujimi held that INEC, as the author of the electoral documents, was bound to defend the ballot on behalf of its elected officials, but failed to do so. Clinging onto that section of the Act, Olujimi further argued that the APC did not have the duty to bring forward presiding officers, electoral officers and returning officers across the contending units anymore but could simply make its allegation against INEC that employed all those officials. “The petitioner and the respondents came to adopt their final written addresses, a summation of the case made through their witnesses and applicable laws. We called relevant witnesses, (but) INEC ran away. They were the ones who conducted the election and they were to defend the election. But they ran away from doing that. They did not come to say that the election result they presented to the court was not prepared by them.” They were their own documents. They even certified them for us to use. But when it came to defending that election, they just couldn’t stand. INEC should be able to defend allegations against them. They refused to discharge the duty imposed on them by the law.” The adoption of the final written addresses drew the curtains on appearances of witnesses, the examination of documents by the parties, with the parties now waiting to be served hearing notice on the date of the judgment by the Akpovi-led tribunal. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .