Acting Chief Judge of Lagos State, Justice Kazeem Alogba (left); Institute of Criminology and Penology, Nigeria (ICPN) Executive President, Solomon George Osagwena and Pst Oderinde at the ICPN investiture of the judges The foyer of Lagos State High Court, Igbosere, is an unusual place to stage a play, but when the Acting Chief Judge of Lagos State, Justice Kazeem Alogba and his predecessor, Justice Opeyemi Oke, were invested as fellows of the Institute of Criminology and Penology, Nigeria (ICPN), it turned an altar of performance. The event saw some lawyers pull off their wigs and gowns to showcase their talent on stage with the presentation of the play, titled, Mosaefejo. Presenting the awards to the two justices, ICPN Executive President, Solomon George Osagwena, said the institute is poised to making Nigeria crime free, adding that aside identifying and honouring professionals in any field that is impacting the society for good, the institute is also working alongside legal professionals, criminologists and other related professionals to educate the people on crime and crime prevention. He noted that the two justices have done remarkably well at making Lagos State a pace setter in restorative justice. Justice Alogba commended his predecessor for her use of restorative justice in the resolution of disputes among other positive impacts the legal system has on the society. He said restorative justice should be properly explained to the people at the grassroots, adding that the grassroots constitute the greater number of people in the country and being equipped of the knowledge would enable them settle their various disputes amicably. The event also witnessed the unveiling of Justice Oke’s theatre production ensemble, HOOP Productions. The troupe gave a performance on restorative justice, highlighting how the legal adjudication could enable parties involved in disputes to settle their matter between or among themselves without necessary going to court. According to the former Lagos State Chief Judge, restorative justice is one of the Alternative Dispute Resolutions (ADR) introduced by the Lagos State government to decongest prisons and bring harmonious settlement among parties, especially as the parties concerned determine the way the case should go. She said: “With this form of adjudication, offenders need not to go to court or prisons. It is one of the legal systems introduced in the state to decongest the prisons, reduce pressure in the court, bring amicable settlement among parties and create better and friendly society.” According to the former Lagos State Chief Judge, restorative justice is one of the Alternative Dispute Resolutions (ADR), introduced by the Lagos State government to decongest the prisons and bring harmonious settlement among parties, especially as the parties concern determine the way the case should go. She said: “With this form of adjudication, offenders need not to go to court or prisons. It is one of the legal systems introduced in the state to decongest the prisons, reduce pressure in the court, bring a1micable settlement among parties and create better and friendly society.” The retired justice disclosed that she would pick up another aspect of the law and write a play on it, saying that this will enable the audience and the law officers to comprehend. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .