 [FILES] Stray bullet from a policeman on Sunday night snuffed life out of a father of four at Ladipo, Oshodi  According to eyewitnesses, Daudu had gone to pack the chairs he rented to the Celestial Church of Christ, Oshodi Parish, when the policeman who escorted one of the dignitaries, an unnamed politician, started firing into the air to disperse some area boys that clustered round the dignitary. One of the bullets hit Daudu in the head. Speaking with newsmen, the late Daudu’s widow, Mrs. Yemi Daudu, a petty trader, said: “I was in the shop when I got a call from someone who asked where I was. I told the person I was in the shop. The caller asked where was my husband, I told her he had gone to work. She said I should call my husband to know where he was, that she had unpleasant information. I called my husband’s telephone number but the line didn’t go. “Almost immediately, I heard another person making calls in front of my shop. I heard the caller asking the person at the other end if it was that man that rented chairs. At that point, I became scared. I rushed outside and held the man by the shirt, asking what happened. He said we should go to the house. By the time I got home, I met my husband on the ground, already dead.” It was gathered that the Shepherd of the church, Superior Evangelist Alabi, has been arrested. Police sources said his arrest formed part of an ongoing investigation into the incident. “His arrest will lead us to the eminent Nigerian that came with the police escort, who allegedly fired the shot,” police sources hinted. When The Guardian visited the church, its secretary who did not disclose his name referred this reporter to the church’s headquarters at Ketu. He said: “I can not speak on it because we have someone who can speak at the headquarters at Ketu. You can go and get answers to any question there.” The Guardian gathered that the policeman who allegedly fired the shot that snuffed life out of the father of four had been arrested. It was also learned that he is attached to one of the Mobile Police squads. An eyewitness, Akinbiyi Ridwan, said at about 8:00 p.m., Dauda went to pack his chairs and tables when he met his untimely death. “The church invited some dignitaries that came with police escort. The deceased went there to pack all his chairs and tables, as the dignitaries were about to leave when one of the policemen took out his gun and shot Dauda on the head. He died instantly. “The culprit must be brought to book. This is an injustice against the residents. The Inspector-General of Police (IGP) should withdraw security men guarding dignitaries. We also appeal to the Area F Commander for the immediate arrest and prosecution of the killer policeman,” he said. Ridwan lamented that it wasn’t the first time policemen would kill innocent citizens in the area. He, therefore, urged the local council chairman, Bolaji Idris Ariyoh, to put an end to the random killings. “It is high time we let the area commander knew that Nigeria police are going against their duties and responsibility. They are employed to guide and protect the Nigerian citizens, not the rich people. This is an injustice of the highest order. Injustice to one is an injustice to all. Meanwhile, chairman of Oshodi-Isolo Local Government Area, Ariyoh has commiserated with the bereaved family and implored residents to be law-abiding in addressing the issue. In a statement a few hours after the killing on Sunday, he said: “It is with heavy pain in my heart I received the news of gunshot that claimed a life in Ladipo due to a stray bullet. I wish to state that security operatives are already on top of the situation as some arrests have been made to unravel the cause of the situation and bring the culprit(s) to book. However, the state’s police command has said it has commenced an investigation into Dauda’s killing. The Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Bala Elkana, assured that justice would prevail. The Vice-Chairman of the council was among those who paid condolence visits to the widow. “We learned the police have commenced investigation into the incident. We will have to wait for the outcome of the investigation. The investigation is the reason why Waliu had not been buried because as a Muslim, he ought to have been buried. But we are still waiting for the police to get their facts,” he said. Reacting to the incident, the Centre Against Injustice and Domestic Violence (CAIDOV), called on the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, CP Muazu Zubairu, to unmask the killer cop. A statement by the Executive Director, CAIDOV, Comrade Gbenga Soloki, said: “The incident is unfortunate, wicked and pure murder. Unmasking the killer cop will bring succour to the family of the deceased as well serve as a deterrent to other policemen”. When contacted, the Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Elkana Bala, said investigation into the matter was ongoing.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .