Textile Industry Local manufacturers in the country have charged the new Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Adeniyi Adebayo, to formulate a comprehensive industrialisation policy that would prioritize developmental efforts towards driving backward integration programmes and create linkages for various value chains in the manufacturing industry. Indeed, the local producers noted that the association would work with the Ministry to re-jig the industrial policy to make the real sector of the economy competitive. The president of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), Mansur Ahmed, explained the need for a comprehensive and coherent industrial policy that would also encourage Small and Medium Enterprise (SMEs) sector while also scaling up the present administration’s ease of doing business mandate. The MAN boss at a press briefing preparatory to its yearly general meeting scheduled to hold from September 2 – 4, 2019 in Lagos, said: “We are making arrangements to meet with the new Minister, Industry, Trade and Investment drawing his attention to some key issues that need to be addressed. “There is need to link the agriculture sector to the manufacturing sector and also the need to work on some of the constraints that have made the Nigerian manufacturing sector uncompetitive and this has to do with infrastructure. We will work with the ministry to ensure that these issues are addressed and the ease of doing business which is a core objective of the present administration is scaled up considerably.” He said the theme for this year’s general meeting tagged: “Improving Value Chain in the manufacturing sector for Competitiveness and Job Creation” was borne out of the need to highlight the significance of improved manufacturing value chain linkages in the efforts to make the sector competitive; contribute more to the Gross Domestic Product and create the much-needed jobs in Nigeria. He added that the event would feature exhibition of Made in Nigeria products to run for the three days, the 4th Manufacturers’ Annual Lecture/Presidential Luncheon, a road show by Afreximbank and a private session of members to review the performance of the association. According to him, the meeting would also provide a platform for an interactive session with the Comptroller General of Nigeria Customs Service, Hameed Ibrahim Ali, which he said would afford members the opportunity to interface with the service and address the challenges they face in their normal course of doing business In his words, “Already we have 100 exhibitors. They cut across the ten (10) sectors of MAN and would be showcasing the best of Made-in-Nigeria Products that meet local and international standards. His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari, is expected to attend the event as the Special Guest of Honour, while His Excellency, Prof. Benedict Okey Oramah, President and Chairman Board of Directors of Afreximbank will be the Distinguished Guest Speaker.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .