Marcel, Dr. Chudy Nduaka ( left) Uniabuja VC, Professor Abdulrasheed Na’Allah; and Foundation President, Dr. Chudy Nduaka, at the occasion. United States of America-based non-profit organisations, Africa Education Initiative in partnership with the University of Abuja have opened an Internet Technology Center for the veterinary school of the tertiary institution. The organisation, which is dedicated to the promotion of science and engineering education in Africa donated 12 laptops, a projector, projector screen, one Thermocool air conditioner, one 3.5 KVA Thermocool Hustler generator, one OX 26-inch industrial fan and free WiFi Internet service to the centre Speaking at the opening of the centre in Abuja, the Foundation President Dr. Chudy Nduaka,  said the essence of making these resources available to the university was to enable the students have access to the global research community. He emphasised the need for students to be computer literate in order to compete with the global talent market place and called on individuals and corporations to partner with the Foundation to make more of these Internet Computer Centers available to students throughout Africa. Vice Chancellor of University of Abuja, Professor Abdulrasheed Na’Allah commissioned the Technology Center and welcomed the visitors to the varsity. Also present were the Deputy Vice Chancellor Academics (Professor C. B. I. Alawa), Deputy Vice Chancellor Administration (Professor S. M. Adam), Registrar (Mrs R. H. Swanta), Dean Faculty of Veterinary Medicine (Professor W. D. Nafarnda). Following the opening ceremony, the visiting team interacted with both students and Faculty of the veterinary school and Dr. Nduaka announced scholarships for the best students in Pharmacology & Toxicology. He also gave out need-based scholarships for students from underprivileged homes. In two other separate events, members of the Foundation visited Mother Theresa Orphanage in Gwarimpa, Abuja as part of their community service engagements. There, they made donations of food items, clothes, shoes, books, toys and sport items. They also assisted in renovation projects, including helping with painting the orphanage home. Their final visit took them to Meadowland School, Abuja where they made donations of five iPads and pledged to sponsor the best students in academics. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .