 Professor James Apam  Frank Kato of Independent Democratic Party (IDP), on behalf of CNPP, stated in Lokoja on Wednesday that a new REC of impeccable record character should be posted to Kogi with immediate effect. According to him, when Apam came to the state, all the registered political parties embraced him, especially for being a professor of political science, but regretted that the don had progressively relegated the political parties in the state, while favouring the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC).
He alleged that the REC made the Government House his second office, in utter disregard of the decorum his office deserved. But the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has described the allegations against Apam as false, malicious and unfounded.INEC Head, Voter Education, Gender and Publicity, Alhaji Ahmed Bagudu, said the allegations were far from reality. He added that those who were at the tribunal to challenge the outcome of the elections had not implicated the REC in the cause of the proceedings. Meanwhile, Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC) in Akwa Ibom State has advised RECs in the country to emulate their colleague in the state, Mike Igini, for his transparency and uncompromising stance. The legal adviser, Mfon Peters, stated this while fielding questions from journalists in the state yesterday. Even as Igini had been accused by APC of working for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the IPAC lawyer noted that the last general election was the freest and fairest in the history of the state. “Our position is based on the transparency demonstrated by him before, during and after the elections. IPAC in Akwa Ibom has about 65 political parties. More than 60 of them agreed that the elections were transparent and credible in the state. “Igini did not compromise the election,” he said, averred that the REC brought about unprecedented electoral reforms in the state.Peters called on stakeholders in the state and beyond to disregard calls from the APC that Igini be removed.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .