 Adefolajuwon Amoo  To achieve this, experts at the Nigerian Innovation Summit 2019, Lagos, argued that youths in the creative industry must approach government at all levels for effective collaboration rather than promoting brain drain and allowing them leave Nigeria to develop other economies for exploit. The experts noted that Nigeria can do better than China and India in terms of innovation and creativity if government challenged the indigenous innovators to present projects and ideas that can transform Nigeria’s economy, and make a concrete commitment to bankroll such ideas to the full. Also speaking at the summit organised by Emerging Media, Founder of GridCode, Adefolajuwon Amoo, charged innovators and others in the industry to take advantage of the Federal Government’s Executive Order 5, and see how it applies into their products offering. Amoo expressed delight by the way the Federal Government bought into his idea (GridCode), as the solution to the challenges people face in navigating the complex and matrix-like routes of the urban areas, which they saw as bankable and marketable. He said: “With my innovation (GridCode), no one would suffer stress to locate another person anywhere, any day, no matter the distance. It is very easy to do, and it saves a lot of resources for anyone who buys into it.” Also, the Executive Vice Chairman, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Umar Danbatta, who was represented by deputy manager, Kunle Azeez, challenged young innovators to initiate concrete recommendations to further drive innovations for Nigeria’s economic growth and development. He assured of the Commission’s promise to support their vision, saying that business operators must turn their illusions about radical business changes into realities. He added that artificial intelligence (AI), augmented realities, Big Data, Over-The-Top (OTT), blockchain technology, robotics, advanced systems and a host of others are becoming sine quo non for companies seeking to drive innovative products and services to customers.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .