Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari said a few Nigerians abroad indulging in criminal activities do not represent the values of the country. “Let me also say that there are few Nigerians in the Diaspora that are giving us a bad name by engaging in criminal activities,” Buhari said at a meeting with leaders of the Nigerian Community living in Japan on Thursday. “These Nigerians are a minority, they do not represent the values of our country, and I plead with them to change their ways.” Buhari’s assertion came a week after United State authorities listed 77 Nigerians in a massive fraud. US authorities on published names of 80 persons involved in massive fraud, money laundering in the United States. In the 252-count federal indictment statement seen by The Guardian, at least 77 of the persons were of Nigerian origin. The U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Central District of California said 14 of the suspected fraudsters have been arrested across the United States, with 11 of these defendants apprehended in the Los Angeles region. The remaining defendants are believed to be abroad, most of them in Nigeria, authorities said. But Buhari, who was in Japan for the Seventh Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD7), said the Nigerian government “will not condone any crime whether at home or abroad.” The president his administration will not allow Nigerians engaged in criminal activities to define other citizens of the country as a people with a reputation for criminality. Buhari said despite the criminalities of a few, “there are millions of Nigerians all over the world, like you here, who are truly making us (Nigeria) proud.” He described the majority of the over 17 million Nigerians in Diaspora as “the face of Nigeria globally and our ambassadors for good.” Buhari, however, urged Nigerians in Japan to be good ambassadors of the country and continue to contribute their quota to their home and host country’s development.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .