The countdown is over for the Reyettes [Lana Del Rey fans] as their Queen Lana has released her sixth studio album right on time. The singer-songwriter began teasing Norman Fucking Rockwell! since early 2018, dropping a number of singles like “Mariners Apartment Complex,” “Venice Bitch,” “Doin’ Time,” “Fuck It, I Love You,” and “The Greatest.” Del Rey co-produced the album with Rick Nowels, Zache Dawes, and Bleachers frontman Jack Antonoff, who contributed to 11 out of the album’s 14 tracks. In a recent interview with Billboard, Del Rey admitted she was somewhat hesitant to begin working with Antonoff on the project, as she was feeling uninspired at the time he had approached her. “I wasn’t in the mood to write,” she said. “He wanted me to meet him in some random diner, and I was like, ‘You already worked with everyone else; I don’t know where there’s room for me.” The 14 track body of work was announced via Instagram with a post captioned;
“Happy Labor Day weekend folks.
And happy birthday Norman
you’re one day old today!
Thank you Jack for helping me make this album
Thank u Laura so much for engineering thank you Chuck for taking the photos and making a three-part beautiful video
thanks Rich for our awesome videos we just put out
and thank you to my lovely girls who are on the cover with me for this Alt cover. Thank you Rick Nowels for being u and for bartender and a bit of happiness is a butterfly.
Zach Dawes and Loren for California.
Andrew Watt for producing doin time. Louis Bell for additional production on fuck it.
Thanks Benny and Ed
Polydor and Interscope. Appreciate ya
it’s been fun putting stuff out as it comes and grateful to have it all out now”   Happy Labor Day weekend folks.  And happy birthday Norman  you’re one day old today!  Thank you Jack for helping me make this album  Thank u Laura so much for engineering thank you Chuck for taking the photos and making a three-part beautiful video  thanks Rich for our awesome videos we just put out and thank you to my lovely girls who are on the cover with me for this Alt cover. Thank you Rick Nowels for being u and for bartender and a bit of happiness is a butterfly.  Zach Dawes and Loren for California.  Andrew Watt for producing doin time. Louis Bell for additional production on fuck it.  Thanks Benny and Ed  Polydor and Interscope. Appreciate ya it’s been fun putting stuff out as it comes and grateful to have it all out now A post shared by  Lana Del Rey (@lanadelrey) on Aug 30, 2019 at 11:39am PDT  Listen to ‘Norman Fuc*ing Rockwell’ via Spotify below; 