Tekno After causing a buzz on social media last weekend following a public display of semi-nude women dancing in a transparent truck in traffic around the Lekki-Ikoyi link bridge in Lagos, afrobeat, hip-hop and R’n’B artiste, Augustine Miles Kelechi Edgar, who is better known by the stage name Tekno, is back with the release of his new street-themed tune titled Agege, featuring Zanku dance exponent, Zlatan Ibile The new offering is the Cartel Music chief’s follow up to his previously released Up Tempo song, which music video shoot stirred some social media uproar last Friday, August 2. In the new song, the Duro crooner showed once again, why he is rated high in the African music space, even as combined effortlessly with Zlatan Ibile to deliver a jam straight out of the streets. Sources close to the Pana singer said the video for Agege, which drops anytime soon, is something to watch out for as both singers did what they know how to do best. Meanwhile, the stir created by Tekno is not unnoticed, as the scene, which caused heavy traffic on the Lekki-Ikoyi Bridge, attracted the attention of Lagos State government, as the Lagos State Signage and Advertisement Agency (LASAA) slammed a suspension on Provision Media System Limited practising licence. The display by the half-clad ‘dancers’, who whined their body seductively, whilst Tekno spray money on them, hitting them inappropriately, necessitated the stir from commuters and motorists, as some park their vehicles to catch a glimpse of the ‘strippers’. Reacting to the development, the Chief Executive Officer of LASAA, Mobolaji Sanusi, in a statement, said the suspension of Provision Media System Limited would take effect after investigation have been completed. “The Lagos State Signage and Advertisement Agency has suspended, pending final investigation, the practising licence of an advertising firm, Provision Media System Limited, over indecent advertisement around the Lekki/Ikoyi toll gate.” “We wish to state, without equivocation, that no outdoor mobile advert truck within the jurisdiction of our dear state is licensed to display such crass immorality of the calibre that the owner(s) of this unregistered truck exhibited on our roads over the weekend,” the statement read. According to Sanusi, the display contravened Section 136 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015, which states: “Any person who commits any act of gross indecency with another person in public commits an offence and liable to a conviction to three years imprisonment. He further cited Section 134(a), which succinctly states that an indecent act in a public place makes both parties engaging in the act liable to imprisonment for two years. However, the 26-year-old singer took to his Instagram page, @tecknoofficial on Sunday, August 4, to explain that the scene was a video shoot for his song and not an advert for a strip club. “Hi Everyone, please I will like to clear the air about the situation of videos going round of girls in a truck dancing around Lekki or Victoria Island. First of, there was no reason for us to be dancing in a truck around Lekki. There was no music, no ventilation in the truck. “We were shooting a music video, and we had shortage of vehicles to convey people to the next location, because some of the cars broke down in between the shoot, which we divided ourselves into various vehicle because we had been shooting all day and having fun which we then moved to the next location. However, this was about 12am at mid-night already. This was no form of advert for a strip club or dancing naked on the streets for any type of reason.” “In addition, we respect the decency of Lagos and as much as we are entertainers we are always mindful of what we have and don’t jeopardise it. That’s why we enjoy shooting our videos in Lagos. As we all know it’s a Centre of Excellence and also the Centre of Entertainment,” he wrote. Meanwhile, Triple MG boss, Ubi Franklin has shared new photo with Tekno as the singer ends his five years music contract with the entertainment/management company to officially begins his ‘Cartel Music’ label. “Five years ago I was asked why I was signing you. Because they saw you as rude and arrogant, my reply then was talent and self-confidence most times comes out as rude and I believe the results show today that I wasn’t wrong. Most of the issues I had from that day with the former was because I took that decision to sign this great talent. “One of the successful growth of Made Men Music is as a direct result of your outstanding talents, your dedication and commitment to the label is priceless. Congratulations Tekno! This is a significant year for you as you celebrate an important part of your career. And as you reach this milestone with Made Men Records, it is with great pride that I say I appreciate your outstanding exemplary character. “This message reflects my appreciation for your dedicated years of service and is a symbol of your personal and professional commitment and loyalty to the label. Outstanding talents like you are and always will be my greatest asset. I always believed in you. “Please know that you are an important member of the Made Men Music Group for life and your abilities and contributions is an important part of our continued success. Thank you Tekno for all that you do and please accept my good wishes on your new career journey. It’s a Family Thing Congratulations CARTEL MUSIC, @teknoofficial.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .