A bandit, Aliu Musa, after his arrest revealed that his gang gets their weapons delivered to them by a helicopter. The 20-year old on Wednesday narrated that he once watched helicopter drop weapons for his boss inside Dinya Forest in Kankara Local Government Area of Katsina State. “I once saw that aircraft with fans on its head (helicopter) drop weapons for my boss while we were inside forest at Dinja,” Musa told journalists. “It was hovering and was very near ground. The man inside would drop the weapons for my boss who would now couple the weapons for our use.” Musa, and another suspected bandit Salmanu Isa, 18, were among other suspects paraded for various offences at the Katsina Police Command headquarters. He explained, that “It is only my boss who would go and pick the weapons while we would be watching from where we stood.” The bandit said he was paid N17,000 per operation and confessed to killing at least five people during operations. The bandits mentioned Sirajo and Bishir as their gang leaders. Spokesman of Katsina State Police Command, Anas Gezawa, before parading the suspects said Musa’s gang had killed no fewer than 25 people in different operations. Gezawa said the suspects confessed that they were bandits that tormented Kankara village and its environs. “The first suspect Salmanu Isah (a member of the gang) mentioned that they attacked some villages with his syndicate, where they robbed Zango village and went away with eight cows,” Gezawa said. “He also confessed that he shot dead one person before going to rob at Santa village, where they snatched six sheep and some food items.” The police spokesman said the bandits also went to Bela and Zango villages where they killed about 20 people and rustled two cows. Gezawa also said the bandits stormed Omodo village and killed about five people and also rustled eight cows and six sheep. The police spokesman said there is an ongoing investigation into the case.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .