Thirteen people have lost their lives following attack by bandits on two communities of Dantakuri and Barza, in Danmusa council area of Katsina state. While 11 people lost their lives in Dantakuri, two people were killed in Barza community areas, with residents saying the incident took place between 7pm on Suday into the wee hours of Monday. The incident is in addition to four people that the police had confirmed dead in Tsayau village, in Jibia council area of the state. Residents, who spoke with newsmen on the phone, said the bandits came in their dozens and were armed with automatic weapons. “They came on motorcycles, shot sporadically into the air, rustled animals, kidnapped some people and destroyed properties,” one of the residents in the area told the Guardian. He also said that resident were still counting their losses as there were speculations that some of those fleeing scene of incident may have met their end in the forest. He however called on government to help address the security challenge facing the area, adding that same had been a recurring problem. In a related development, bandits have attacked Zakka village in Safana council area, where they looted homes, rustled animals and kidnapped some residents, including women. They were said to have also attacked some homes in the heart of the town, where they moved from house to house, seizing money, phones and other items of interest. It was learnt that the bandits kidnapped mother to the immediate past commissioner for local government and cheiftiancy affairs in Governor Aminu Bello Masari’s cabinet, Ahmed Zakka. They also whisked away his junior sister and a daughter to one of his junior brothers. One of the residents in th area said the bandits attacked the area in the wee hours of yesterday, and that several people have been tropping to sympathise with the former commissioner. However, the police is yet to respond to inquires made on the said attacks.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .