Oyovbaire Delta State Governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa yesterday sent warm felicitations to former Delta Governor, Chief James Ibori and former Minister of Information and Chairman, Delta State Advisory Council, Prof. Sam Ejite Oyovbaire, as they clock 61 and 78 years respectively on August 4. Okowa also congratulated Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege as he turned 56 years on August 3. These were contained in separate statements by his Chief Press Secretary Mr. Olisa Ifeajika as he extolled Chief Ibori for his outstanding contributions to the development of Delta and Nigeria. While congratulating Ibori on his birthday anniversary, Okowa lauded the enigmatic political prowess of his former boss, describing him as a political colossus, astute administrator and an enthusiastic leader of impeccable values, saying, “My distinguished leader, it is to your credit and other great leaders that oil producing states of the Niger Delta are enjoying 13 per cent Derivation today. Your indefatigable role as a champion of Resource Control and Fiscal Federalism unarguably puts you among true patriots and one of the strong pillars of Nigeria’s democracy.” He recalled with emotions some of the sacrifices made by Ibori to deepen Nigeria’s democracy and thanked him for his role in his re-election for a second term in office. He affirmed that Chief Ibori’s uncompromising “posture on the issues of injustice and good governance in Nigeria stand him out as a rare breed and one of the cornerstones of Nigeria’s democracy, especially with his track record of persistence, consistency and effective leadership. “As the father of modern Delta, the governor commends the visionary and inclusive leadership style that the Odidigboigbo, as he is fondly called, provided for the people of Delta for eight years, laying the foundation for a modern state, and building bridges of unity among the diverse ethnic groups in the state,” In a related development, Okowa also extolled the contributions of Prof. (Chief) Sam Oyovbaire, a renowned professor of Political Science towards the realization of the SMART Agenda and Stronger Delta vision of his administration, as well as the development of Delta State and Nigeria in general. He said he was grateful to God for giving him Prof. Oyovbaire as a “Political Father” and prayed God to grant him more wisdom as he continues to contribute to the upliftment of Delta State, just as he commended him for always making himself available to render service to the state and nation when called upon. He urged him to continue in that trajectory as he still has much to offer the people of Delta and Nigeria. In same vein, the governor also described the Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege, as an illustrious son of the state in whom Deltans are extremely proud for attaining such a high political height in the history of the state. “On behalf of my family, the government and people of Delta State, I wish to congratulate my brother and friend, the Deputy President of the Nigerian Senate, a great son of Delta and leader of great value, Distinguished Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, on the occasion of his 56th birth anniversary. “Your Excellency, the invaluable contributions you have made to national development is worthy of note in the minds of Deltans and Nigerians. You have remained committed, diligent, focused and dedicated to the service of mankind.” Okowa noted that the Senator representing Delta Central Senatorial District is no doubt a gentleman par excellence, a team player and above all, a God-fearing Nigerian. He expressed optimism that Senator Omo-Agege will bring his wealth of experience to bear in the affairs of the Senate and contribute his quota towards building “a Stronger Delta of our dreams.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .