 [FILE] Ekiti state governor, Kayode Fayemi.  Oba Alabi’s appointment is being challenged by 16 “Pelupelu Obas” called Alademerindinlogun, who claimed that Fayemi contravened the Ekiti State Chieftaincy Law, which stipulated that the chairman can only be appointed among Alademerindinlogun/Pelupelu Obas. They claimed in their suit filed before Ekiti State High Court that the promotion of Alawe to Pelupelu Obas’ status was political and that could not grant him the power to become the chairman of the traditional rulers council. However, the aggrieved 16 monarchs from three senatorial districts boycotted the ceremony that was largely graced by first class and other kings under the aegis of ‘Majority Obas’ of Ekiti State. Fayemi, who spoke at Alawe’s inauguration in Ado-Ekiti, urged the traditional rulers to bring their powers to bare to resolve the vicious insecurity level across the nation. While charging the Obas on the need to maintain security and peaceful co-existence in their domains, Fayemi said their co-operation would help in curbing anti-social activities with strong partnership with government. The governor, who avoided issues surrounding the pending litigation in court, probably because such could be subjudice, said the constitution of the council became inevitable owing to the fact that the traditional rulers play pivotal roles in the stability of every community and the nation in general. “I want to charge you to co-operate with this government and be at the forefront of the fight against anti-social behaviour because what we need to promote development is peace.’’ “I want you to be protectors of your people as custodians of culture and tradition in your domains. Despite modernity, you remain the rallying point and you will ever remain relevant. “I want to appreciate the immediate past council for putting in their best in piloting the affairs of the council. I have no doubt that the new council will collaborate with government for more development in our state. “You must ensure that you unite the traditional institution and eschew baseless rivalry. Don’t be used by Fifth Columnists that do not understand that elections are over in Ekiti State. Don’t also allow unnecessary communal clashes that could destabilise the state.” Oba Alabi, who promised to be fair to all Obas regardless of status, urged his colleagues to restrict themselves to giving advice to governors and not to criticise since “we are not running a labour union.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .