 Chika Nwobi  Founder, Decagon, Chika Nwobi, during a press conference in Lagos, revealed the ideology was to transform fast learners into world-class software developers and connect them to job opportunities. He said: “Decagon aims at training 5,000 software engineers over the next five years, with each training and mentoring, at least, one individual as well. This will create a ripple effect of, at least, than 30,000 world-class Nigerian engineers in the next five years. Decagon is contributing to putting Nigeria on the global map as a source of outstanding engineering talent. We want to collaborate with all stakeholders to achieve this goal. “We recruit young smart Nigerians, put them in the right environment and expose them to the right curriculum. Decagon’s programme takes a year’s worth of learning and compresses it into six intensive months. The physical learning experience, coupled with a comprehensive welfare package (accommodation, feeding, internet, laptop, stipend) keeps students focused solely on learning, thus producing well-rounded engineers; possessing broad technical knowledge and deep problem solving skills. “There is no limit to what the knowledge of technology can do for young brilliant Nigerians. Globally, there is a huge demand for software engineers, and the huge amount of fund, organisations invest on experts outside the country is no child’s play. Indian seems to be the source of talents globally and the most brilliant Nigerian have a few options, which is why I feel there is a need to invest in talents. If Decagon mission is fulfilled, it will get Nigeria to the level of having over 2.3 million population involved in software engineering,” he said. Nwobi further explained that the Decagon programme was very rigorous, and getting into the program was strictly based on merit. “Successful applicants are trained on technical skills to be able to perform exceptionally well at core tasks, and are equipped with leadership and soft skills to be able to think and act strategically as team members and leaders”. He added that Decagon facilitates job placements with a growing network of hiring partners comprised of the best organisations to work in Nigeria. “This offers the Decadevs (Trainees), a strong foundation to build their careers upon. Some of these include Terragon, Sterling Bank, Workforce Group, Seamfix and others. Sterling Bank in providing highly subsidised student loans – a first of its kind in Nigeria – with payback upon securing a job. Also, MainOne supports Decagon by providing free high-speed broadband Internet, which enables the students to access critical resources online. Africa Capital Alliance supports the program by providing scholarship grants to the best students right from the boot camp phase of the programme.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .