The President, National Institute of Marketing of Nigeria (NIMN), Tony Agenmonmen, has charged organisations to practice good ethical behaviours to foster survival and longevity in the Nigerian market. The charge was made during his investiture at Eko hotels and Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos state. Agenmonmen in his investiture speech said the Institute was chartered by Act of Nigerian Parliament 25 of 2003, as the body with sole regulatory powers for the marketing profession in Nigeria. “That makes it 16 years of interesting history. I have had the honour of serving as President/Chairman of Council of the Institute in the past two years, and through the grace of God and the will of our members, I was re-elected unopposed at our AGM held in May 2019. I am truly humbled, and honoured to be able to serve our great Institute and our members again, for the next two years,” Agenmonmen said.
He said the biggest task on assumption of leadership in November 2016 was to raise the profile and equity of the NIMN brand. As at that time, it was at an all-time low. He commented on the issue regarding enforcement of the provisions of the NIMN Act that makes membership of the Institute compulsory, stating that the NIMN ACT, 2003 Act no. 23, clearly makes it illegal to practice marketing without being a registered member of the National Institute of Marketing of Nigeria. Meanwhile, in a keynote address, the Group Managing Director of SO&U Ltd., Udeme Ufot said companies should establish a set of shared values and principles that can serve as a moral compass in navigating the unpredictable waters that is the Nigerian business environment. Ufot said, “It may be in the form of a Code of Conduct or Table of Values that define ethical conducts in the organization. “A code of ethics is defined by the National Institute of Management as ‘a set of moral principles used by the organisation to steer conduct of itself and the employee, in all business activities both internally and externally,” he said. “In client-agency relationships, integrity must be played out not only in the day-to-day client-agency dealings, but it must also be reflected in the agency approach to briefs. A lie may be sold once, but once the customer discovers, the brand will unravel, and very quickly too,” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .