Prepaid meter Mojec Meter Assets Management Company, and Ikeja Electric, have expressed commitment to closing the metering gap and putting an end to estimated electricity billing in Nigeria. Speaking at one-day sensitisation and engagement forum, tagged: “MAP Sensitisation”, aimed at educating customers on the processes to accessing prepaid meters manufactured and distributed by Mojec in Lagos, the partners pledged to act on the feedback and experience. The Chief Executive Officer of Ikeja Electric, who was represented by the Chief Operating Officer, Folake Soetan, explained that the event was put together not just to sensitise consumers but to interact with them and get feedback on their customer experiences, which will help improve the services being offered. “Acquiring a meter comprises of four major steps, which include a Know Your Customer (KYC) phase, where details of the customer is captured; a survey of the customer’s premises to ascertain the appropriate meter type needed; then followed by payment for the meter by the customer; and thereafter the provision and installation of the meter by Mojec International, one of our Meter Asset Provider (MAP)”, Soetan said. Also, the managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Mojec International and Mojec Meter Assets Management Company, Ms. Chantelle Abdul, explained that the event was in efforts to ensure that customers have access to quality and credible meters.
She said: “We are confident to say that we have meters available and upon purchase through the necessary channels, our technicians will be deployed to install them. “We are also proud to say that our meters meet all the necessary standards as they are thoroughly tested and approved by the relevant regulators. In addition, we provide insurance and maintenance of the meters over a period of time. “We are working to ensure that meters get installed at our customer’s premises within 8 days from date of order.  As agreed by Ikeja Disco and Mojec, customers are not to offer bribes to Mojec or third party installers to hasten their order or installation, as the cost of installation is already included in the price of the meter, which they have already paid,” she said. She assured customers that a minimum of 10,000 meters are available to be deployed on a monthly basis, and that as the customer number and demand increases, the meter supply will increase accordingly. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .