How knowledgeable are you about condoms? In case your answer falls in the negative, you don’t have to worry as we are here to give you some insight into condoms. Condoms have been around for a long time with cave paintings from 12,000 years ago claimed to show the first evidence of condom use. The oldest condom ever found dates back to 1642. As with many old things, there ate myths surrounding condom use that we will be looking at and debunking. Below are five myths about condoms and their use. Fact: The manufacturing of condoms is strictly regulated, so condoms must meet certain standards. What this means is that condom manufacturers electronically test every condom for holes and other defects. They also conduct additional testing on random condoms from each batch (usually involving a water leak test to detect holes and an air burst test to check the strength of the condom). Fact: It is ironic that the use of double condom is less effective than when you use one. When two condoms are used together, more friction can occur between them; this makes it more likely that one or both of the condoms can tear. Fact: This myth is a bit tricky as it depends on how you define effective. There are four types of male condoms: latex, polyurethane, polyisoprene, and natural/lambskin. Research indicates that when compared to latex condoms, polyurethane condoms are 3-5 times more likely to break during sex. Condoms Fact: When it comes to condom use, size does matter. Using the correct size condom for your penis size is important. Condoms are more effective when they fit your penis properly. Condom malfunction can occur if you use the wrong-size condom; condoms that are too small/tight may be more likely to break whereas condoms that are too big/loose may be more likely to slip off. Fact: In general, condoms should not cause you harm or negatively affect your health. This myth speaks more to people who may have certain health issues with the ingredients in condoms or the condom’s lubrication. Latex condoms may not be the best choice if you have a latex allergy.