Black woman experiencing burnout. Photo; Huffington Post People who are struggling to cope with workplace stress may place themselves at high risk of burnout. Burnout can leave people feeling exhausted, empty, and unable to cope with the demands of life. It may be accompanied by a variety of health symptoms as well. Below are some signs you might be experiencing burnout: Someone who is experiencing burnout will always end up exhausted. There is a constant physical and emotional depletion. It might lead to loss of appetite; poor sleeping pattern; constant head ache and stomach ache to mention a few. As a result of the constant exhaustion, it might lead to isolation. Therefore, you might keep to yourself more often and not open up to anyone. Also, you tend to avoid any form of socialization with friends and family members. As a result of the constant pressure from work or jobs, you want to escape your environment and dwell in a fantasy world. This may lead to taking drugs, alcohol and food as a way to numb your pains. Burnout can cause people to lose their cool with friends, co-workers, and family members more easily. You get angered easily when you are not supposed to. Also, negative thoughts keep popping in your head too often, though it is normal to have negative thoughts at times, however, when it becomes too often, then it becomes a sign of burnout. Burnout can reduce the immunity system in the body. It can lower your immune system, making you more susceptible to colds, the flu, and insomnia. Burnout can also lead to mental health concerns like depression and anxiety, digestive issues, heart disease and obesity. Burnout can lead to lack of motivation. When you don’t feel enthusiastic about anything anymore or you no longer have that internal motivation for work, there is a good chance you are experiencing burnout. Burnout can lead to having low concentration level.  You might find that you are more forgetful and have a harder time remembering things. When we are stressed, our attention narrows to focus on the negative element that we perceive as a threat. In the short term, this helps us deal with the problem at hand. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .