 Burna Boy (middle) on arrival with his team  Accreditation of guests began at 8:30 pm, with many industry veterans and executives joining in on the party to celebrate the new album. Burna Boy, alongside his entourage, arrived in true South-South style-on a boat. His father, sister, who doubles as his stylist and his grandparents were also in attendance. The crowd burst into piercing screams and uproars as he made his entrance. He addressed the crowd showing his appreciation for all the fan love, saluted the veterans and old-timers who paved the way for him and thanked everyone, who believed in him and got him to this point in his career. Before the party proceeded into major vibes and ‘turn-up’, he reminded the crowd that they were all African Giants. Hosted by Kunle ‘Shody’ Oshodi – Glover, Sensei Lo opened for DJ Spinall, who was the official DJ for the party. African Giant Bills were circulated through the course of the party, which concluded shortly before midnight and then the after the party moved outside to W Bar Lounge, just outside the venue by the seaside. The body of work, which drooped in the early hours of yesterday, features prominent music heavyweights including Beninese-American singer, songwriter, actress and activist, Angelique Kidjo; youngest son of reggae legend Bob Marley, Damian Marley; Future, M.anifest, Jeremih, Zlatan Ibile, Serani, Jorja Smith, and YG. Burna Boy is known to experiments a lot with different sounds, and this project was no exception. The new offering is a cohesive body of work, with each song smoothly sequencing into the next. African Giant is indeed a proof to Burna Boy’s claim of being African Giant. With maximum control of sound in this project, listening to this album, there is an assurance that the Killin Dem crooner is very likely to be ‘best artiste’ out of Africa right now. The album title originates from the Star Lager and Pepsi Ambassador’s infamous outburst at the organisers of Coachella for spelling his name in small case. It documents topics of achieving dreams, life’s beauty and activism. A veritable representation of Afrobeats, listeners can also feel the influence of Fela’s Afrobeat, which is usually mistaken for Afrobeats on the album. Originality in sound has been Burna Boy’s major weapon and he has wielded it perfectly. In 2018, when his Ye gained massive attention across the world after Kanye West dropped a project with the same title, the Nigerian artiste became one of the most sought after Afrobeats sensations. He has collaborated with various acts including Lily Allen, J Hus, Dave, and many others. A testament to his tremendous growth came in the form of a spot on Coachella. The album title originates from the Star Lager and Pepsi Ambassador’s infamous outburst at the organisers of Coachella for spelling his name in a small case. It documents topics of achieving dreams, life’s beauty and activism.