 Buhari received the Governor of Adamawa state, Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri, Leaders of Thought and Stakeholders at the Council Chambers, State House, Abuja. Photo: TWITTER/ ASOROCK  He stated this when Adamawa State Governor, Umaru Fintiri led a delegation to visit the President at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Expressing condolence to the governor and the people of Adamawa State over the death of his father, Alhaji Umaru Badami, the President prayed for the repose of his soul. His words: “I am delighted to receive your delegation today. As you are all aware, Adamawa is home away from home for me. Therefore, this meeting is more or less, a family gathering. “I am pleased to hear your remarks, specifically on education and health. These areas remain priorities for this government, especially as we strive to achieve social inclusion and collective prosperity for all Nigerians. “At the federal level, we are doing our best to address these issues. But the Federal Government cannot do it alone. We need states and local government areas to do their part. This is not about politics. It is a reality. “Today, the majority of Nigerians are below 20 years old. And it is projected that our population growth rate will remain among the fastest in the world. This means any plans we have today must take into account tomorrow’s needs. “I have taken note of your requests and recommendations. We shall review and act accordingly. I would suggest, however, that you send a written submission to my office in due course.” Fielding questions from State House correspondents, Fintri said Adamawa needed Federal Government’s support in the areas of agriculture, human development and roads, especially the dilapidated federal roads in the state. He also said his administration would focus on security, education and infrastructure development, among others, saying: “We have given very serious attention to security, health, infrastructure and education, agriculture and human development. “I want to see that our youths are completely emancipated, empowered so that we don’t have the youth restiveness that culminated into the Boko Haram insurgency. “When I came to Adamawa, I met the challenge of youth criminality, which was nicknamed ASILA and today they are no more. So, these are serious areas of concern and I have given it serious attention and it is working.” On his delegation’s visit to the President, Fintiri said the purpose was to put governance, development, and welfare of Adamawa people in the front burner in an atmosphere devoid of politics. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .