 Scene of the incident yesterday  A man whose identity could not be immediately ascertained yesterday unclad himself and jumped into the Osun River in Osogbo, in what eyewitnesses have described as suspected suicide. The incident occurred at about at about 5:15p.m. As at press time yesterday, the man was yet to be evacuated. At the scene of the incident, officials of the Osun State Fire Service and policemen were seen controlling the milling crowd who had gathered on Gbodofon Bridge, located along the Osogbo/Gbongan Road, from where the man reportedly jumped into the river. The scene is on the bridge connecting the river to the campaign office of former governor Rauf Aregbesola. An eyewitness, John Samuel, who claimed to have seen the man shortly before he jumped into the river, said: “I was at the other side going towards a fast food joint when I saw a guy strip himself naked on top of the bridge. Immediately, I saw him making an attempt to jump, I shouted, hoping that would stop him from jumping into the river, but he ignored me. “There was a commercial bus driver coming behind who stopped and wanted to stop him from jumping, but before he could alight from his bus, the guy had already jumped into the river. He left behind a bag and we tried to check if there was any means of identification, but the bag was empty.” Another eyewitness, Ade Olude, said the victim’s action might not be unconnected to life challenges and unfulfilled expectation due to current economic hardship and frustration sweeping through the society at the moment. Meanwhile, two armed robbery suspects, who specialize in using tricycle (Keke Napep) to rob unsuspecting passengers were yesterday mobbed to death in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State capital.The other suspect was severely injured after they were seriously beating by an angry mob following a failed robbery attempt. There has been a new surge in armed robbery and burglary in the state capital, occasionally perpetuated by suspected cult members. The victims were identified as Nsikan Phillip, aged 23 from Akwa Ibom State; Lucky Iniokpo, aged 21 and 18-year-old Perekebina Lucky, from Toru-Ebeni community, in Sagbama local government area of the state. The incident, which occurred at Dimrose street in Biogbolo community of Yenagoa at about 11:00p.m. on Wednesday night, threw the entire area into a frenzy. The suspects, it was also gathered, were caught by vigilance group members, who voluntarily keep watch at different streets due to the incessant spate of robbery attacks in the area. An eyewitness, name withheld, said: “We had earlier saw the tricycle parading the area when I was going to the Dimrose junction to buy something from the store. Though I didn’t suspect them but because of the way Bayelsa is we are always on red alert. “The vigilance group was alerted and despite their guns and other weapons they were able to overpower them. Everyone came out to mob them. Two died instantly due to the beating from angry residents and even the one that is alive may not escape death due to the severity of the beating.”When contacted, the state command Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Asimin Butswat, said he was not in town but will reach the command and report back on the incident. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .