Group condemns reports linking Ihedioha to FBI wanted suspect The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has said that it is still collating comprehensive data on Nigerians indicted in the recently-busted money laundering and cybercrime offences in the United States (U.S.). Eighty suspects, mostly Nigerians, were allegedly involved in the crimes investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) in the U.S.
Besides, the commission said it arrested 263 suspects for cybercrime-related offences in the year 2019 while 111 of them had been convicted and sentenced to various jail terms. Head of the Ibadan Zonal Office of the EFCC, Mr. Friday Bello, disclosed this during a press briefing at the commission’s office in Ibadan where he revealed that the zone also recovered huge sums of money in local and foreign currencies.He said some of the information earlier collected had led to the arrest of many Internet fraudsters, and one kingpin, Ajayi Gbenga Festus in Ado-Ekiti, who was found to be deeply involved in many Internet-related fraudulent activities from which he had benefited up to N75 million in the last eight months. “We were able to establish a number of illicit transactions through his Nigerian bank account amounting to over N223 million. Ajayi serves as conduit pipe through which proceeds of crime reach members of the syndicate,” he said. Meanwhile, the Imo-United Kingdom (UK) Diaspora Forum has described the recent report that the FBI wanted suspect, Chika Odionyenma, bankrolled the election campaign of the state governor, Emeka Ihedioha, as baseless, mischievous and fallacious.In a statement by the Co-ordinator, Enyinna Amadilkwa, in Owerri yesterday, the group said that the reports were calculated attempts to distract Ihedioha on his rebuild project for the state. Ihedioha had through his Chief Press Secretary, Chibuike Onyeukwu, said he was not aware if the FBI wanted man was involved in any crime as alleged or being investigated for financial crimes. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .