Nigeria’s vice president Yemi Osinbajo Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA) has implored President Muhammadu Buhari to personally oversee an investigation into allegation of undue interference and active undermining of the mandate of the Presidential Committee on Recovery of Public Property made against Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and erstwhile Justice Minister Abubakar Malami (SAN) by Mr. Okoi Obono-Obla. The group, in a statement jointly signed by its National Co-ordinator, Emmanuel Onwubiko and the National Media Affairs Director, Miss Zainab Yusuf, said that sweeping the damaging allegations under the carpet could mean the end of the anti-graft battles by the current administration. It added that the accusations made by Obono-Obla constituted serious issues that must be probed forensically if the current administration is to convince the international community that it does not condone impunity and corruption by those in the corridors of powers. “The fundamental ethos of justice, equity, equality before the law and respect for the principles of rule of law is that nobody is above the laws of the land. In effect, this means that no matter the political status of any citizen, everyone is subjected to the rule of law and no class of people must be graded as ‘untouchables,” it said. It, however, stated that it would be absolutely unconstitutional for the President to gloss over or overlook the serious allegations of unjust interference and attempts to cripple the functioning of the presidential panel made against key government officials, including Osinbajo who is now being accused of using his nominee, the chairman of the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission (ICPC) to reportedly wage his wars against Obono-Obla. The rights group said the media presentation made by Obono-Obla must not be dismissed as claims of a drowning man since he seems to have provided empirical body of evidence to support his claims of internal sabotage made against the Vice President and Malami. HURIWA, however, reminded Buhari that his administration need not throw the baby with the bathwater and must not compromise the anti-graft war. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .