 [FILE PHOTO] The leader of Islamic Movement of  nigeria otherwise known as Shi”te, Ibrahim El-Zakzaky  As the Kaduna State High Court resumes sitting on the bail application by the leader of Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN), Sheikh Ibrahim El-Zakzaky, and his wife, Zeenat, today, the state’s police command has vowed to take action against any form of protest.
El-Zakzaky and his wife, still in detention, had asked the court to allow them travel abroad for medical attention. The police called on Kaduna residents to remain security-conscious as they go about their businesses, and report any suspicious person, movement or gathering to prevent breach of peace in the state. The command’s spokesperson, DSP Yakubu Sabo, stated: “Members of the public should note that the ban on all forms of processions/demonstrations in Kaduna State is still in force. The police will not hesitate to deal decisively with any person or group of persons who deliberately attempt to violate the ban. “In view of the court trial of Ibrahim El-Zakzaky on Monday August 5, 2019, the peace-loving and law-abiding people of Kaduna are to note that adequate security has been put in place for a hitch-free court appearance. Therefore, members of the public are advised to remain calm and not to be apprehensive where they observe unusual number of security personnel in town.” Sabo added that as part of the strategy put in place for a smooth process of the court trial, “there will be traffic diversion in the following areas during the court session: Independence Way, Bida Road and all other roads leading to Ibrahim Taiwo Road. “The command uses this medium to call on the general public to report suspicious activities or persons around them to the nearest security agency.” Meanwhile, the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) has called on the federal government to obey the rule law and release all persons held behind bars illegally and against court order.The national president and General Superintendent of Gospel Light International Ministries, Dr. Felix Omobude, made this known in an interview with The Guardian at the international headquarters of the church in Benin City, Edo State. PFN stressed that government had no justification for keeping El-Zakzaky behind bars while a court of competent jurisdiction had ordered that he should be released on bail.According to the Christian body, any government trampling on the rule of law is calling for anarchy, as the court is the last hope of the common man.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .