 Former Vice President Namadi Sambo (left); Emir of Zazzau, Shehu Idris; President Muhammadu Buhari; Kaduna State Governor Nasir el-Rufai; Minister of the Environment, Muhammad Mahmoud and other dignitaries, during the commissioning of Zaria water supply expansion project in Kaduna State… yesterday.  Buhari, who stated this during the commissioning of the Zaria Water Supply Expansion Project, pledged that his administration would continue to implement policies and execute people-oriented projects that will change the narrative for Nigerians. ‘’This project is the culmination of the joint efforts of the Federal Government, Kaduna State Government, Islamic Development Bank and the African Development Bank. ‘’The multilateral nature of the funding for this project underscores the great importance the Kaduna State Government and the Federal Government attach to this project, which is designed to provide adequate water to the growing city of Zaria and its environs,” Buhari said. While commending Governor Nasiru El-Rufai of Kaduna State for completing the water project, which had hitherto languished for years, the President said: ‘’I am aware that the governor undertook to offset all outstanding payments to the contractor in 2015, which led to the resumption of construction activities at the 150 million litres per day water treatment plant.’’ Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, in a statement yesterday, said the President equally praised the Kaduna State government for demonstrating an appreciable commitment to development through people-oriented projects. ‘’To our multilateral partners, the Islamic Development Bank and the African Development Bank, we are grateful for your part in providing the needed funding to undertake and complete the transmission mains, service reservoirs, booster stations and distribution network. ‘’We could not have done it without your contributions. We are hopeful that this partnership will continue as we seek to reach out to other communities, cities and states in Nigeria to provide water facilities and other essential services,’’ he said. The President, therefore, challenged the Kaduna State Water Corporation, responsible for operating and maintaining the system, to live up to expectation, urging beneficiaries to be responsible citizens by ensuring vigilance over the facilities and payment for water consumed. He noted that water infrastructure investments such as this one would serve for decades if well managed and well maintained. ‘’The project is partly funded by loans that will be repaid by coming generations. We should ensure that they are appreciative even as they continue to pay back the loans,” the President said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .