For breaching public decency by conveying half naked girls in Lekki traffic, the Lagos State police command has arrested popular musician, Augustine Kelechi, a.k.a. Tekno and his video producer, Lawal Tijani. It was gathered that he was arrested yesterday and is undergoing questioning at the state Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID), Panti, Yaba for several hours before being granted administrative bail on health grounds. Tekno had last week conveyed half naked girls, who were dancing seductively in a transparent glass box on a truck around the Lekki-Ikoyi Link Bridge. In the truck, the musician was seen spraying the scantily dressed girls with money as they danced. Following public outcry it generated, the state government reacted swiftly and condemned the move. Tijani and Tekno had on Sunday apologised to Nigerians for the act. In his defence, Tekno said he merely used the truck to convey his crew to a location for a shoot, which was not intended to breach public decency. The video clip, which had gone viral on social media, was said to be part of a scene from Tekno’s unreleased video, titled Agege, featuring musician, Zlatan Ibile. It was also gathered that the owner of the display truck is also in police custody. Confirming the arrest, the state police spokesman, Bala Elkana, said he was invited for questioning. He said: “The command has arrested Tekno and two girls for conveying half naked girls at the Lekki area of Lagos. He is presently undergoing questioning at the state Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID), Panti.” The police said such acts of public indecency is against the criminal code and if after investigation those involved are found guilty, they would be charged to court. Already, the Lagos State Signage and Advertisement Agency (LASAA) has suspended the advertising firm, Pro-Vision Media Systems Limited. However, the firm noted that it had sold the vehicle since last year and could not bear any liability. The act is said to be in contravention of Section 136 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015, which provides that any person who commits any act of gross indecency with another person in public commits an offence and liable on conviction to three years imprisonment. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .