 The National Commandant, Nigerian Peace Corps (NPC), Dr Dickson Akoh  Lagos State Commandant of the group, Ambassador Paul Okwuchi, made the plea at a rally tagged: “Let’s Give Peace a Chance,” in Alausa, Lagos.  Okwuchi, who lamented the killings, kidnappings, banditry and armed robbery in the country, expressed hope that if the Nigerian youths were gainfully employed, crimes and insecurity would reduce drastically.He pointed out that it was time Nigerians make peace a priority and not just a passion, stressing: “Peace is achievable in Nigeria.” “When our youths are useful to themselves, it will be of great benefit to the country. There will be peace and quietness. This would close the gap that would have encouraged the youths to engage in vices such as hooliganism, cultism, hard drugs and crimes against the country’s law and order. “The thought of bringing our people together, advocate peace and engage our youths in useful activities for development of the nation, informed the theme of this year’s event. “These activities focus on provision of jobs for our youths, their engagement in useful ventures, their empowerment, as well as creation of skills and craft for the country’s development.“Presently, we are a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO) and we want the FG to sign bill so that we can push Peace Corps of Nigeria to a higher realm such that we will propagate job creation nationwide in a manner that will attract the international community,” he said.Okwuchi also pointed out that the event was in response to the 100 days countdown message to the 2019 International Day of Peace by the United Nations (UN) Secretary General. Also speaking, Chief Information Officer, Patriot Akinmutola Oluwatunmise regretted that the country was in the grip of inexplicable violent killings of horrendous proportions. She noted that this should attract the concern of well-meaning individuals and the Federal Government, which informed the theme of the rally.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .