Netflix is taking us on a journey into the mind of Bill Gates. The streaming platform is set to release a three-part documentary on Microsoft co-founder, business magnate, and philanthropist Bill Gates. The docuseries titled, “Inside Bill’s Brain: Decoding Bill Gates” explores the past, present and future of the tech Visioneer and humanitarian.  The trailer of the docuseries features commentary on Gates’ incredible feats in Silicon Valley, personal sacrifices and his leap into philanthropy around the world. When asked about his favourite animal and food, he responded, “Dog” and “Hamburger” respectively. And to what his greatest fear, Gates replied: “I don’t want my brain to stop working.” Official description from Netflix: “The series, in-depth and unfiltered in its depiction of a man’s life journey, both his triumphs and setbacks, offers unprecedented access to Gates as he pursues unique solutions to some of the world’s most complex problems with the same level of optimism, curiosity, and fervor that inspired his original vision for Microsoft. Interweaving these endeavors with personal moments, Inside Bill’s Brain draws on interviews with Bill and Melinda Gates in addition to their friends, family, and partners in philanthropy and business, creating an innovative and revealing portrait of a man who, after changing the world, might just change the way others see it.” “Inside Bill’s Brain: Decoding Bill Gates” was created and directed by Academy Award-winning director Davis Guggenheim and is scheduled to be released on September 20, 2019, on Netflix. Watch the trailer of “Inside Bill’s Brain: Decoding Bill Gates” below:  Meanwhile, in Nigeria, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation has so far committed over $1.6 billion (N580,800,000,000) in Nigeria towards making the country a global economic powerhouse that can provide opportunities for all its citizens. The funds were committed to addressing issues of improved primary healthcare systems, agriculture, financial inclusion, routine immunisation and financial inclusion, among others.