 Katsina State Governor, Aminu Bello Masari  They stated this yesterday at this year’s Eid-el-Kabir celebrations being marked by Muslims across the country. Katsina State Governor, Aminu Bello Masari, charged Nigerians to always pray for their leaders to enable them to navigate the ship of state through the turbulence of insecurity and social challenges besetting the nation. Masari, in a goodwill message to Muslims signed by Director General, Media, Abdu Labaran Malumfashi, said Nigeria required prayers and not confrontation in times like these. He said although citizens have the right to hold their leaders accountable in the discharge of their responsibilities, it would, however, be counterproductive to allow the heart rule over the head by being confrontational in their approach. Besides, Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, stated that the season symbolised sacrifice and faith in divine will. In his broadcast to the people of the state yesterday, he charged everyone to show total submission to the will of Allah by Prophet Ibrahim as “all our successes are out of the commitment to the will of Allah, by whose grace we are where we are today.” He also said Eid-el-Kabir should be a period of renewing the spirit of compassion to fellow human beings and sacrifice in the service of society, adding: “It is also a moment when our good deeds of charity and generosity can strengthen our hands in prayers for progress and peace in our society.” Also, Gombe State Governor, Mohammadu Inuwa Yahaya, has felicitated with the Muslim Ummah, urging them to imbibe the spirit of obedience and tolerance. He stated this in his message to the people of the state and enjoined all Muslims to sustain their prayers for the peace, security, and prosperity of the state and the nation. Inuwa also urged the people to use the occasion to extend support and show love and good neighborliness to others, as exemplified by Prophet Ibrahim (AS) and upheld by prophet Muhammad (PBUH). However, Taraba State Governor, Darius Dickson Ishaku and his deputy, Haruna Manu urged Taraba people and Nigerians to eschew acts capable of truncating the country’s peaceful coexistence. They made the appeal in their messages, insisting that development could only be achieved when the people put aside their differences and embrace peace genuinely. While Ishaku asked Taraba people to use this year’s Eid-el-Kabir to reconcile with friends and neighbours in the pursuit of peace, which is critical to development, Manu urged the people to tolerate one another by ending violence in the state and the entire country.https://editor.guardian.ng/wp-admin/media-upload.php?post_id=992655&type=image&TB_iframe=1 Relatedly, Kwara State Governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq appealed to the people to sustain the existing peace in the state for overall development. AbdulRazaq, who made the appeal at the Ilorin Muslim praying ground, canvassed sustainability of the prevailing peace in the state to attract investors and boost its socio-economic development. Also speaking, Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom urged Muslims to intensify prayers for the unity and peace of the country. Ortom in his Sallah message issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Terver Akase, said there was no alternative to peace, noting that only an atmosphere devoid of violence could guarantee meaningful development. “It is the duty of religious organisations to always call on God to intervene in the country’s affairs and cause peace to prevail. A situation where security operatives have also become victims of attacks is unfortunate. The development is worrisome and deserves to be urgently addressed,” he stated. Meanwhile, their Kogi State counterpart, Yahaya Bello, advised those allegedly inciting the public against the Federal Government to desist from doing so, saying the government was trying its best to fix the nation’s decayed infrastructure. He spoke at his Okene country home central praying ground shortly after he and other Muslim faithful observed the Eid-el-Kabir prayers. “The Federal Government under President Muhammad Buhari is trying its best to fix the country and tackle insecurity. What he needs now is cooperation of everyone and not a detraction from anyone,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .