 [FILES] President NIMN, Mr. Tony Agenmonmen.  President of the institute and chairman of the council, Tony Agenmonmen, made this known at the investiture ceremony of his second term in office. The NIMN was chartered by Act of Nigerian Parliament 25 of 2003, as the body with sole regulatory powers for the marketing profession in Nigeria. Agenmonmen stressed that the current council was determined to enforce the Act, adding that abiding by it is not a matter of choice once you elect to practice marketing in Nigeria. He said the approach of the NIMN in the last two years was avoiding the use of force in enforcing the Act except as a very last resort. He said, “in line with this approach, we have, in the last two years, doing all the needful to drive voluntary compliance: We wrote directly to the major marketing companies availing them copies of the ACT and the current register of members, we held consultations with NECA and ADVAN to further sensitise them on the need for their	member companies’ marketing employees to voluntarily comply, we even offered special soft conditions to ADVAN members. “Some practitioners have since then taken advantage and voluntarily complied. Unfortunately, we still have a significantly high number of marketing practitioners who have so far not complied. We cannot continue to wait for them indefinitely.” The NIMN president and chairman of the council also said the institute takes ethical behaviour by its members very seriously, saying by end of November 2019, the NIMN shall publish the NIMN Code of Marketing Ethics (CoME) “We indeed expect our professionals to be role models in their organisations and in the country in general. However, we shall not leave this to chance as the professional misconduct of one has	the capacity to smear the reputation of the entire profession,” he said. The NIMN president also pledged that the institute is determined to offer mentorship to young marketers in the country so as to build their capacity and make them more professional in their conduct. He said, “we have a unique challenge in the marketing profession in Nigeria today. At the top layer, we have a collection of some of the brightest and the best marketing professionals in the world. “There will be a short term of three months and where the Institutions’ programmes allow, can be up to12	months.” According to him, during his first term, the council made some significant stride in repositioning the Institute to an	enviable one. He said, “our biggest task on assumption of leadership in November 2016 was to raise the profile and equity of the NIMN brand.	As at that time, it was at an all-time low.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .