Nigerian actress, Monalisa Chinda reveals in a video how she left her marriage because of domestic violence, Segun Dejo Richards. In the video, an exclusive with TopNaija, the Nollywood actress revealed that she endured the violence in her marriage for 5 years because she wasn’t in a hurry to leave. “I wasn’t in a hurry to leave the marriage, I gave it five years… Maybe if the marriage wasn’t violent, I would have stayed from day one from pushing of the head to slap to every slightest provocation….”  When asked how she left her ex-husband. She said that she expected the abuse would stop after the birth of her daughter, Tamar: “When I had Tamar, I thought that would calm situations. But it didn’t. I knew this was not going to stop. So Tamar clocked one, the violence didn’t stop… So I said if I don’t go, this man is going to kill me and this girl. So I had to turn to God… I don’t believe in separation of any sort. I don’t believe in divorce. Why did I talk to God directly? Because I told talked [sic] to my church then, they didn’t do anything about it. “I had a pastor. He didn’t do anything about it, not even calling him to order… And nothing changed. I turned to Holy Spirit now I said I’m going to leave. And I’m ready to face any consequences be it the media… “One day, something happened… He came back and asked for something, it wasn’t available and next I heard was a bang on my head, slaps… My daughter was crying. Neighbours were screaming ‘you will kill her o! You will kill her o! Every day we no go hear something for this compound!’… That night… the friend came over and stopped it… The morning after, I’d packed my things and taken Tamar to go to my very good friend’s place… a colleague of mine who opened her home to me and my daughter… I had to go back again to get Tamar’s, few of Tamar’s things cuz I didn’t have any money…. and then he blocked me and immediately I went into tongue-speaking in my heart saying this man should not kill me today. And after that beating that day I almost died. I decided to never to come back there again.”  Meanwhile, in 2017, in an interview on The Other News with Okey Bakassi, Chinda had admonished women against provoking their men into violence: “As much as I don’t like domestic violence, women should quit provoking their… men into punches, slaps…” 