Governor Emeka Ihedioha of Imo State yesterday reiterated that his administration would adhere strictly to the rule of law devoid of any form of mediocrity and favouritism.He said efforts had been place to settle all those who got garnishee orders or owed by the immediate past government of Rochas Okorocha in the state, adding that the financial burden, which his administration inherited, was avoidable had the past government been responsible. Ihedioha, represented by the state Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Ndukwe Nnawuchi (SAN), stated this at the presentation of a book written in his honour by a veteran journalist and public affairs analyst, Dr. Chuks Osuji, entitled, “Ihedioha on a Divine Race to Douglas House” in Owerri, the state capital. The governor also reiterated the commitment of his administration to recover all the government property and funds allegedly looted under the watch of Okorocha government, and called for collective efforts to his ‘rebuild project’ in the state. He said: “The financial burden we inherited was enormous, regrettable and avoidable if we had a responsible government.   But we are working tirelessly and relentlessly to find possible ways of dealing with what appeared to be intractable financial burden. We are trusting God for His grace to solve the problem. “We are talking to all concerned, both those who have obtained court judgments and those with garnishee orders. As a government that is responsive to the rule of law, we are talking with them to ensure our commitment to the rule of law. “We are not going to flout any court order or judgment. We hope that through Alternative Dispute Resolutions (ADR), we can seat on a round table and find amicable solutions to all of them. Earlier in his speech, Osuji said that the 350-page book was written not to eulogise the personality of the governor but to encourage him to succeed, adding that he had long envisioned the emergence of Ihedioha as the answer to challenges of mis-governance and disobedience to the rule of law in the state. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .