Coffee. PHOTO: Unsplash Coffee is a brewed drink prepared from roasted coffee beans. The darkly coloured and bitter beverage is one of the most popular drink in the world. It is estimated that 2.25 billion cups of coffee are consumed per day. Coffee contains several useful nutrients, including riboflavin (vitamin B-2), niacin (vitamin B-3), magnesium, potassium, and various phenolic compounds, or antioxidants. Some experts suggest that these and other ingredients in coffee can benefit the human body in various ways. However, drinking too much coffee can cause harm to your body. Underlisted are four reasons why you should put down that coffee mug. Drinking too much coffee can lead to a condition called “caffeinism”. This condition is marked by restlessness, nervousness, irritability, insomnia. People who drink a lot of coffee every day become “dependent” on coffee to the point that they develop withdrawal symptoms that include headaches, muscle pain and stiffness, lethargy, nausea, vomiting, depressed mood, and marked irritability if they suddenly stop drinking it. Coffee has a stimulating effect on humans, primarily due to its caffeine content – reduces fatigue and drowsiness. Caffeine is the world’s most widely consumed psychoactive drug. Caffeine can cause insomnia, nervousness and restlessness, stomach upset, nausea and vomiting, increased heart and breathing rate, and other side effects. Drinking unfiltered coffee can increase total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein (LDL), and levels of another type of blood fat called triglycerides. This might increase the risk of developing heart disease. Using coffee filters helps to reduce these effects on cholesterol. There is some concern that drinking more than 5 cups of coffee per day might not be safe for people with heart disease. But for people who don’t have heart disease, drinking several cups daily does not seem to increase the chance of developing a heart problem. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.