Relationship photo bustle.com In a relationship, everyone has their own quirks and opinions, these things must be studied. However, there are some behaviours and attitudes that might be toxic, these attitudes are known as red flags and must be avoided at all cost. Below are some red flags that should be looked out for in any relationship. Push your boundaries If your partners always push your boundaries, then that is a red flag. If you tell them you are busy and they still push you to see them, or you do not want to go further sexually and they insist, or they push you to become who you are not as long as it is comfortable for them, then, that is a red flag that shows the relationship might end up being toxic. Sense of entitlement If  your partner has a sense of entitlement, it is a red flag. When we see that somebody feels entitled to us doing more for them than what is equal in a relationship, that’s a huge red flag that they are someone who uses people. When in a relationship and one party keeps giving, then there will be an imbalance, the relationship will be toxic and the other party will be drained at the end of the day. Self-centered If they make everything about them, then maybe it is time to let go, that is a red flag. When every discussions, everyday life and basic interactions revolve around them, the relationship will end up being one-sided and tiring.  According to Catenya McHenry, a journalist who wrote the book “Married to a Narcissist”, she wrote “Over time, you may will feel alone, constantly guilty, and you’ll even doubt your own self-confidence and self-worth. This is definitely a reason to distance yourself from the person you’re dating. Narcissistic abuse is emotionally and psychologically damaging to their partners and most everyone they interact with.” Critical about their exes The way they discuss their exes will also be the way they will talk about you if anything happens. Also, it is not possible for all the faults to be on their exes alone, they will also have their own faults, so if they have refused to take responsibilities for their actions. When people describe all of their exes as terrible people and put all the blame on them for the relationship’s failure, this is a red flag for me. 