   Police spokesperson in the state, Femi Joseph, who identified the suspects as Charles Eyitayo, Damilola Aderoboye and Blessing Michael disclosed that investigation had begun into the matter. “We have commenced an investigation into the matter, and after the investigation, the suspect would be charged to court,” he said. Also, the Dean of Student Affairs (DSA), Abiola Ogunro, who confirmed the rape incident, stated that: “We are aware that the police have started their investigations on the case and they have promised to get back to us.”Narrating how the incident happened, the victim said: “I was in the room when the three of them forcefully had their way in and bounced on me. I begged them to please leave me alone but they refused. They asked one of them to forcefully undress me and before you know it the three of them raped me. “They even threatened me that they had the recordings of the escapade and would upload the videos on the social media if I should tell anyone. Yet, I could not keep the trauma to myself. I had to tell one of my friends in confidence who reported the issue to the police and the boys were tracked and arrested.” Meanwhile, the Anambra State police command yesterday paraded one fake police Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), Hassan Abuka, who terrorized motorists in Lagos, 85 suspected cultists and six armed robbers in various locations in the state.Parading the suspect at the police command headquarters, Amawbia, yesterday, the Commissioner of Police (CP), John Abang told journalists that the feat was as a result of a review of the crime preventive strategies embarked by the command, especially the operation “Puff Adder” and operation “Kpochapu”. He said Hassan Abuka, aged 33, who hails from Otukpo in Benue State, has been impersonating the force with a police camouflage uniform bearing DSP rank and Ismaila Ahamed (37) also from Otukpo in Benue specializes in snatching cars from victims at gunpoint. He said they robbed a yet to be identified victim in Lagos of a Toyota Corolla car with Reg. No. AGL 357 FC and were arrested by the Anti-Robbery Squad at their hideout in Ihiala. CP Abang further said another 85 suspected cultists were arrested at various locations in Anambra by security operatives in August, adding that 16 of the suspects were picked up from their hideouts at Awka/Aguleri/Umureri axis, while 15 others were arrested at Oko/Amaokpala/Awka axis. The fake police officer claimed he was dismissed from the force in 2015 as a result of accidental killing of another police officer in Lagos while heading to intercept an armed gang, but denied that he was an armed robber.	“After the incident, I was detained in the police cell but later transferred to Panti prisons. I was dismissed but frustrated in life. I mistakenly bought a stolen car in Lagos and was later arrested by the Federal SARS in Ihiala”, he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .