 National Coordinator, SERVICOM, Mrs. Nnenna Akajemeli. PHOTOS:TWITTER  He said this during the inauguration of the Ministerial SERVICOM and Anti-Corruption and Transparency Committees, by the National Coordinator, SERVICOM, Mrs. Nnenna Akajemeli, and the Chairman of Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission, Prof. Bolaji Owasanoye represented by Olayinka Aiyebayo, respectively. Addressing the management and the committee members, Istifanus pointed out that civil servants must deliver satisfactory services so that the citizens can feel the impact of service delivery. He noted that the period of hiding files would soon be over because the Ministry has concluded plans to put files into electronic forms to end the era of carrying papers and files about. He said: “The Ministry of Communications has already started work on the electronic management systems and I believe that by the time we are done, there is no way any staff can leave anything on his/her table for more than 24 hours in line with extant rules. “I am willing to support all the staff in providing them with the required working tools as the Ministry has concluded plans to provide computers and laptops for staff which will also enable the newly inaugurated SERVICOM and Anti-Corruption and Transparency Unit (ACTU) Officers to have computers for the effective delivery of their duties and give feed back to the management for necessary action.” In her remarks, Akajemeli, noted that the SERVICOM is an initiative of the Federal Government, which means service compact with all Nigerians, and as such, “SERVICOM by this inauguration is set to position her foot soldiers in the Federal Ministry of Communications, to monitor the quality of services rendered to the public by the Ministry, and to ensure set service standards are met. “As the Ministry that regulates the communications sector, there is a need to begin to see those regulatory standards impact positively on the lives of Nigerians. SERVICOM wants to see the Ministry of Communications stand out as a pace setter to other ministries through effective, efficient and quality service delivery as a technology based ministry.” Similarly, Olayinka, while inaugurating the Anti-corruption Committee, urged members to serve as an in-house check mechanism in identifying lapses in operational systems of public organisations and seek to establish processes that are transparent, accountable and free of unethical practices.He said: “the ACTU is not meant to displace or challenge the authority of management in running the affairs of the organisation. Rather it is to compliment the effort of the management.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .