 National Coordinator, SERVICOM, Mrs. Nnenna Akajemeli. PHOTOS:TWITTER  She stated this during a courtesy visit to NOTAP recently.She said NOTAP was a very strategic government agency that has shown commitment in ensuring rapid development of indigenous technology for effective service delivery to all Nigeria.She added that SERVICOM being an establishment that ensures quality service delivery in the country, her Office must work closely with NOTAP. “Our visit to NOTAP today is to explore areas of collaboration to ensure a rapid technological development of the country, knowing that without technology, no country shall fully attain its potentials”. Earlier in his welcome address, Dr. DanAzumi Mohammed Ibrahim, director general, NOTAP said the major function of NOTAP was the registration of Technology Transfer Agreement as well as to facilitate the development of indigenous technologies amongst others. He said as a regulatory agency, NOTAP received a number of applications for registration of technology transfer agreement running into millions of US dollars from Nigerian entrepreneurs for importation of foreign technology and for a country that wants to develop, Nigeria needs to grow her own technology to avoid over dependence on foreign technology. Dr. Ibrahim stated the Nigerian knowledge institutions must work in synergy with the industry to ensure that researches carried in the Universities and other knowledge institutions are capable of solving production challenges of industry for overall improvement of human existence. He reiterated that while Universities in the developed countries are capable of sustaining themselves from the royalty accruable from licensed R&D results, their counterparts in the developing countries wait for government subvention for survival. He added that the establishment of IPTTO, NOTAP Industry Technology Transfer Fellowship and other laudable projects of NOTAP, Nigerians are already beginning to see the benefits of the interventions. He said Patents have started coming out from the knowledge institutions based on the impact of the IPTTOs on the institutions thus established.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .