Police assure adequate security
Ikale Unity Front (IUF) has raised the alarm over impending bloodshed in Okitipupa and Irele councils of Ondo State, as arms and mercenaries were allegedly being mobilised in the area. IUF, which represents the Ikale people of Ondo, urged the state government to intervene urgently in the land crisis between Ago-Alaye and Araromi-Obu people before the areas witness bloodshed. In a statement yesterday, the chairman, Isaac Omogoroye, alleged massive deployment of mercenaries and arms in Ikale from neighbouring states. According to him, the daring threats on the Ago-Alaye people in Okitipupa and Ikale by Araromi-Obu people have become worrisome. Following a high court judgement in favour of Ikale few months ago, Araromi-Obu people in Odigbo Council of the state engaged them in communal war, leading to wanton destruction of lives and property in July 16. Omogoroye lamented that many Ikale people, including Mr. Boriowo Temiola, Kehinde Akinolehin, Mrs. Olajide Temiola and Wilson Ogundayomi among others had been maliciously chased out of Araromi-Obu. “Information reaching us indicates that the Araromi-Obu people are at advanced stage towards launching another round of attack on the Ikale in Ago-Alaye, Ufara and environs any moment from now under the guise that the latter are responsible for security breaches in the area,” he said. The group, which disclosed that mercenaries had been invited from neighbouring Oyo and Osun states, appealed to security agencies to beef up security in the area to prevent the attack. “We are using this opportunity to avail the Nigeria Police Force, the Directorate of State Services (DSS) among others to be proactive towards nipping in the bud any plan to attack Ago-Alaye people by Araromi-Obu with the assistance of mercenaries from Oyo and Osun states. “We must state clearly here that our people in Ago-Alaye are not cowards, but we are only calling on the state security sector to know who to arrest if Ago-Alaye is attacked by Araromi-Obu people.”However, the state’s police command has assured the residents of adequate security. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mr. Femi Joseph, noted that the police had deployed its personnel to the area to maintain peace and order. He added that the special intelligence squad deployed to the area could quell any form of trouble.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .