 (FILES) In this file photo taken on March 11, 2019 The Boeing Company logo is seen on a building in Annapolis Junction, Maryland. – Boeing announced July 3, 2019it would give $100 million to communities and families affected by two crashes on its 737 MAX planes that claimed 346 lives. Describing the sum as an “initial investment” over multiple years, Boeing said it would work with local governments and non-profit organizations to provide living expenses and boost economic development in regions affected by crashes of planes operated by Ethiopian Airlines and Lion Air. (Photo by Jim WATSON / AFP)  Also last month, the parent company of British Airways said it intends to buy 200 Max jets, although it has not signed a firm order either.
  
Air Lease Corp., which leases planes to airlines, disclosed last week that with Boeing’s approval, it switched 15 of its 150 orders for Max jets to five Boeing 787s. Air Lease executives said they had a shortage of the larger 787s.
  
Nigerian leading carrier, Air Peace, has none in its operations yet but had ordered at least 10 737 Max planes prior to the second crash and general meltdown of the series.
  
Air Peace Chairman, Allen Onyema, recently told The Guardian that they were watching the development keenly, though it was still “premature to start talking of cancelling or not cancelling the Max order. “We believe that Boeing has the capacity to sort out this problem. However, we are yet to decide whether to go on with it or not because we still have about four years on the delivery of the Max. Until Boeing is through with its investigation and the confidence returns, we are still waiting,” Onyema said.
  
Last month, Boeing reported its biggest quarterly loss – nearly $3 billion – after taking a $4.9 billion after-tax charge for the cost of compensating airlines that lost the use of their Max jets.
  
Boeing halted Max deliveries in March, after the second of two crashes that together killed 346 people.
  
In October, Lion Air Flight 610 crashed just minutes after taking off from Jakarta, Indonesia, killing 189 people. In March, another Boeing 737 Max, Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302, crashed minutes after take-off and all 157 people on board died. 
  
Boeing planned to return the Max series to operations early in the fourth quarter, but Muilenburg has warned investors to brace up for tougher decisions should the delay worsen. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .