Abiola Ajimobi Former Governor of Oyo State, Abiola Ajimobi, has called on all members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) especially in Ibadan/Ibarapa axis to close ranks ahead of the tribunal’s judgment for both the governorship and senatorial petitions. Addressing leaders and chieftains of the APC from the nine local councils in Oyo South senatorial district at a stakeholders’ meeting held yesterday at the party’s state secretariat, Oke-Ado, Ibadan, Ajimobi took his time to explain the rationale behind some of his actions and policies which generated controversies among the populace. At the meeting, Ajimobi and prominent leaders of the party called on the party faithful to approach future political challenges with a resolve to be selfless, forgiving and more committed to the cause of their party and Nigeria. “There are insinuations in some quarters about some of the policies and undertakings of our eight-year administration which some people considered controversial but in all honesty, I meant well for the state. All my actions were geared towards facilitating development for the whole state and also thus make life more meaningful for the masses.” Ajimobi stated. It would be recalled that Ajimobi and the APC standard-bearer, Bayo Adelabu, have pending petitions before the tribunal, challenging the victories of both Kola Balogun (Oyo south) and Governor Seyi Makinde, respectively. In his welcome address, party chairman for the Oyo South Senatorial district, Adefisoye Adekanye, appealed to members to “remain faithful and committed in view of current challenges as what happened in the 2019 general election was an eye opener.” The state chairman, Akin Oke, and secretary, Mojeed Olaoya, in their separate addresses also sued for peace and harmony to accommodate various interests. Olaoya and party chairmen from the nine local councils gave updates on the efforts made so far to lure back all aggrieved members who left Oyo APC during the crisis, which engulfed it before the general elections. Dignitaries at the meeting included the gubernatorial candidate Adebayo Adelabu; former SSG, Olalekan Alli; Executive Chairmen of LGs and LCDAs, former state legislators, members of the State Working Committee, party leaders and chieftains across the senatorial district. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .