Photo credit: Sagittarian Mind Consulting Cancer has been one of the deadly diseases of recent and ovarian cancer has been ranked as the fifth leading cause of cancer death among women. Though it might be difficult treating it, however, there are some things that can put a woman at risk of getting ovarian cancer and things that can be done to avoid this cancer, these things are listed below: It is important to maintain a healthy habit as a woman. The first is maintaining a healthy weight. Being overweight or obese increases the risk of some types of ovarian cancer, especially those in premenopausal women. Losing only 5 pounds to 10 pounds is beneficial if you are overweight. Also, you should eat healthy; there are different foods and fruits that are very essential to human health. Furthermore, smoking increase the chance of having mucinous epithelial tumours, this is a type of ovarian cancer which is deadly. According to scientists, breastfeeding reduces your chance of contacting any type of ovarian cancer. Breastfeeding often inhibits ovulation, which reduces your exposure to estrogen and abnormal cells that could lead to cancer. In addition, talc in your feminine dusting sprays and powder is associated with the development of ovarian cancer. While talc isn’t the greatest risk factor for ovarian cancer, it should be noted that it can still cause this cancer. It is worth to note that some birth control may reduce the risk of having ovarian cancer. Overall, the pill can reduce the risk of ovarian cancer up to 50%, depending on how long it is used. In addition, this risk reduction appears to last up to 30 years. However, the take of birth control pills can increase the chance of having breast cancer. Also, it is important to do screenings to be aware of your health condition. Being aware of your cancer status puts you at a better chance of not being affected by it. Most cancer screening tests are early detection tests. While they can’t help you prevent the disease, results may prompt additional testing that can confirm a diagnosis and prompt intervention that may help derail disease progression. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.