Ovie Omo-Agege • Revolution has started in Igboland, say Ohanaeze youths
Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege, has described the attack on immediate past Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu in Nuremberg, Germany, as dastardly exportation of irrationality and aggressive international affront on the Igbo and Nigeria’s image. In a statement issued by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Yomi Odunuga yesterday, Omo-Agege charged law enforcement agencies in Germany to investigate and prosecute all those involved in the vicious attack. “Ekweremadu honoured the invitation of patriotic Igbo in Germany who wanted him to deliver a keynote address at the event, but some aggressively discourteous elements hijacked the effort to perpetrate a disgraceful assault. “The attack only seeks to deepen the portrayal of members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) as enemies of democratic norms and values in which the majority must always have its way after the minority must have had its say in all matters,” the statement reads. In his reaction, Senate Minority Leader, Enyinnaya Abaribe, described the attack on Ekweremadu by some persons claiming to be members of IPOB in Nuremberg, Germany as reprehensible and utterly sacrilegious Abaribe said the assault smacks of utter ignorance of the prevailing situation at home with regard to what the leaders are doing in the circumstance. “It is a brazen show of ingratitude to a man who has been at the forefront in the struggle for all that is good for the Igbo race,” he said in a statement. He pointed out that he and the entire Senate minority caucus were appalled at the nauseating attack on Ekweremadu for no reason whatsoever, adding: “We condemn it in its entirety. “It is unfortunate. Ekweremadu has given his all in standing for the Igbo race, particularly when we stuck out our neck to arrange and stand surety for the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu.” Besides, National Vice Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the South East zone, Chief Austin Umahi, condemned the attack on Ekweremadu by suspected members of IPOB in Nurnberg Germany, describing it as unfortunate. In a statement issued in Abakaliki from his Media Office, Umahi said he was surprised that some individuals could hide under the proscribed IPOB to attack Ekweremadu after all his efforts as leader of South East Senate caucus in the Eighth Senate to secure Nnamdi Kanu’s release. He frowned on the action of the group against Ekweremadu, who he said, has been on the forefront of the struggle against marginalisation of Ndi-Igbo in the country. Relatedly, Deputy Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, Toby Okechukwu, decried the conduct of members of IPOB, who assaulted the former Deputy Senate President. Okechukwu, who accompanied Ekweremadu to the event, described the development as a show of shame and ingratitude. He explained that he was particularly saddened that such magnitude of indiscretion was meted out to Ekweremadu, who he described as “a humble, but rugged fighter and who practically stuck out his neck in defence of Ndigbo and was instrumental to securing Kanu’s release. Also reacting to the development, Anglican Bishop of Egbu Diocese, near Owerri, Imo State, Geoffrey Okorafor, described Ekweremadu’s attackers as grossly irresponsible, saying the act was highly condemnable. The cleric, who spoke at a Eucharistic Service of Confirmation, Admission and Induction for the Eziama Parish at St. Michael’s Church, Eziama in Ngor Opkala Council Area, lamented the motif of the despicable act of some Nigerians by certain group in Germany, urging concerted efforts to prosecute the actors. Okorafor urged members of IPOB to be wary of their excesses, adding: “The saying that ‘Igbo have no king’ was no longer tenable, insisting that leaders and reputable personalities of Igbo extraction should be accorded respect at all times. Meanwhile, the Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council (OYC) Worldwide said the attack Ekweremadu by members of IPOB in Germany meant that revolution has begun in Igbo land. In a statement in Abakaliki, Ebonyi State, its National President, Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro, condemned the attack, insisting however, that from intelligence report, a revolution has begun in the South East. Isiguzoro, who cautioned Igbo leaders to be careful, as they were no longer safe across the globe, said the assault on Ekweremadu was to test run what may likely happen to other marked leaders in the region, nothing that if the ugly trend remained unchecked, it would spell doom for Igbo leaders.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .