 New permanent secretaries: Ministry of Transportation, Olawale Musa (left); Office of Drainage Services, Olalekan Shodeinde; Ministry of Justice, Titilayo Shitta-Bey; Civil Service Commission, Mrs. Kikelomo Sanyaolu; Cabinet Office, Mrs. Olorunkemi Durosinmi-Etti; Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation, Mrs. Oluyemi Kalesanwo; Tourism, Arts and Culture, Babatunde Olaide-Mesewaku; Waterfront Infrastructure Development, Moruf Agoro; and that the Environment, Mrs. Belinda Odeneye, taking their Oath of Office before Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu at Lagos House, Alausa, Ikeja…yesterday.  The confirmation followed the presentation, debate and adoption of the report of the 16-man ad hoc committee for screening of the nominees into the state executive council. Chief whip of the house and chairman of the committee, Rotimi Abiru, presented the report.The committee had on August 1 commenced the screening of the first batch of the cabinet list comprising 25 nominees and concluded the exercise on August 3. On August 15, it started screening the second batch. The confirmed nominees are Mr. Tunji Bello, Mr. Gbolahan Lawal, Dr. Wale Ahmed, Mrs. Lola Akande, Prince Olanrewaju Elegushi, Mr. Hakeem Fahm, Mrs. Uzamat Akinbile-Yusuf, Mr. Afolabi Ayantayo and Mr. Samuel Egube. Others are Mrs. Bolaji Dada, Mr. Moruf Akinderu-Fatai, Mr. Olusegun Dawodu, Mrs. Solape Hammond, Mr. Kabiru Abdullahi, Mr. Olalere Odusote and Mr. Aramide Adeyoye. Dr Frederick Oladeinde, Mr. Olatunbosun Alake, Mr. Moyosore Onigbanjo (SAN), Prof. Akin Abayomi, Dr. Rabiu Olowo, Dr. Idris Salako, Mr. Bonu Saanu, Mrs. Folashade Adefisayo, and Mr. Oluwatoyin Fayinka also made the list.The rest are Princess Aderemi Adebowale, Mrs. Shulamite Adebolu, Mrs. Toke Benson-Awoyinka, Mr. Adetokunbo Wahab, Mrs. Ajibola Ponnle, Mrs. Yetunde Arobieke, Ms Ruth Olusanya, Mr. Gbenga Omotoso, Mr. Oladele Ajayi and Mr. Joe Igbokwe. Before their confirmation, the house had invited each nominee for brief introduction during plenary.During the exercise, the nominees promised to serve the state conscientiously in whichever office the governor assigned them.After, the confirmation, the speaker, Mr. Mudashiru Obasa, directed the clerk, Mr. Sanni Azeez, to forward the list of the confirmed nominees to the governor.He said that the governor could still re-nominate those rejected by the House. Meanwhile, Governor Sanwo-Olu has assured that his administration will continue to place merit and distinction above personal consideration in the promotion of civil servants; hence they must give their best and let tax-payers get value for their hard-earned money. During the swearing-in ceremony of nine new permanent secretaries at the Banquet Hall of the Governor’s Office in Alausa, Sanwo-Olu said the appointees were selected for their exceptional pedigrees to give the state enhanced service delivery. “I charge our new permanent secretaries to see their elevation as a call for more service and to give their best to the citizens of Lagos. I have no doubt that you all will give your best at all times. I am convinced that Lagosians are in for a renewed and enhanced public service that will take good governance to the doorsteps of ordinary people. “These appointments are a demonstration of what is to come in the coming days. With the full cabinet coming tomorrow (Tuesday), the people of Lagos will be better off with this choice, and all our promises condensed in Project THEMES will begin to work fully and make life easy for Lagosians. At the end of our tenure, we want to be seen to have truly improved the quality of life for greater number of residents.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .