Barely 24-hours of arriving India for medical treatment, leader of Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) Ibrahim El-Zakzaky Thursday said he did not trust the doctors assign to treat him in India. El-Zakzaky said his supposed medical trip has been worse than times he had been in prison detention. “All what we have seen here, have shown us that there is no trust, they just brought us here for another detention,” El-Zakzaky said. El-Zakzaky and his wife Zeenat Monday left Nigeria for India for medical check-up aboard Emirate flight EK786 at about 6:45 pm en route Dubai to Mumbai, India. Before his departure, operatives of the Department of State Services (DSS) the Nigeria Police laid siege to the International wing of the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport (NAIA), Abuja from 1:30 pm to about 3:30 pm. The Shiites leader and his wife Zeenat arrived in India on Tuesday afternoon for medical treatment as ordered by a state high court. El-Zakzaky, however, expressed displeasure at the presence of heavily armed security operatives at every part of the Medanta Hospital where he was admitted. “They didn’t even allow me to go to the next room, I started asking myself, all these while I’ve been in detention, I’ve never seen this type,” El-Zakzaky said. The Shiites leader said he will not submit himself to people he does not trust for medical treatment. El-Zakzaky said three countries – Malaysia, Indonesia and Turkey – have volunteered to treat him and his wife. He said India was not his choice country for medical treatment. “There is a need for us to go back home since it has been agreed that we should travel out to get medical attention and India is not a place we can trust.” El-Zakzaky said there was an agreement with the Nigerian government not to take him to any other hospital aside from the hospital of his choice. The Shiites leader said he and Zeenat cannot “allow a stranger to treat us, lest not what couldn’t be done with bullets be carried out in a different way.” El-Zakzaky and his wife have been in the detention of the Nigeria government since 2015. He faces an eight-count of culpable homicide, unlawful assembly and disturbance of public peace.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .