Gov. Nyesom Wike of Rivers on Monday said that no Mosque was demolished on Biambo Street, off School Road by Mami Market Junction, near Rainbow Estate in Port Harcourt. Wike told newsmen at Biambo Street in Port Harcourt City Local Government Area of the state that there was no Mosque on the ground, hence nothing was demolished. He described as unfortunate, the false information circulated that the state government demolished a Mosque in Port Harcourt. “I received calls from several prominent Nigerians on the fake news being circulated online, and I have come here with reporters and you can see there was no Mosque here. “It’s most unfortunate that fickle-minded persons will claim that a Mosque was demolished at this place when no Mosque existed here; the story was concocted by mischief makers to score cheap points,” he said. According to Wike, some persons are erecting illegal foundations at the disputed land without approval to embark on any construction work. “They came here to erect an illegal structure, there was no approval from the state government for any structure to be erected here. “The persons who started the foundation had already dragged the state government to court on the disputed land, and the Rivers government won the case. “What they attempted to do was to start the illegal construction to tie the hands of the state government,” he added. Wike urged the Muslim Community in Rivers to show him where a Mosque was demolished in the state and advised them not to allow themselves to be used by politicians to peddle false stories against the state government. He said the government-operated within the rule of law, adding that he would not be distracted by the circulation of fake reports. The governor said that several Mosques constructed on the approval of the government existed across Port Harcourt and other major towns of Rivers without the government demolishing them. “The government gave them notice not to do anything on the land, but they went ahead with the illegal foundation and the relevant agency stopped them. “Why would we want to bring down any Mosque, when there are other Mosques across the state? What is the special interest in this one?”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .