The evolving trends of the digital economy would soon bring an end to many physical activities, including financial transactions, the e-commerce and tech-innovation company, Arigo Technologies, has said. According to the company, the virtual space occupied by sellers is free, noting that its efforts are to “wants to encourage our people to move with the changing times.” The Managing Director of the company, Arinze Madueke, said that very soon, most people will not have any need to go to an open market.
“The world is changing and the future of marketplace is digital. This even affords sellers the rare advantage to sell to any buyer in any part of the world,” he said.He made the observation when the company launched the biggest digital mall in Africa, Arigo. The digital mall, which can be accessed via www.arigo.com.ng, is an online market place with thousands of products and services that bring buyers and sellers together and avails sellers opportunity to interface directly with buyers.He explained that unlike other e-commerce platforms, Arigo is highly secured and enjoys sophisticated digital protection most suitable for a digital markethub. “Also, because payments will be made through the platform, we have made the entire transaction safe and secured for both the buyer and the seller. Therefore, buyers and sellers can transact their businesses from any part of world without any form of breach. “Arigo comes with a unique tool that verifies all businesses routinely with a special feature like a yellow page where all businesses in Nigeria are listed. In addition, Arigo comes with an in-built stores like free stores, advanced stores, premium stores and is also opened for business owners to buy their own customized stores,” he stated.He stated the company is poised to help businesses grow, saying: “we want to give all businesses the opportunity to reach their potential and prospective clients globally.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .