 Sylva  In line with the new thinking, the Federal Government is to vigorously pursue the sanitisation of the industry in line with its zero-tolerance for economic sabotage. The minister, who spoke at the weekend during his appreciation tour of his hometown of Okpoama kingdom in Brass and Opu-Nembe in Nembe Local Council of Bayelsa State, reiterated the Muhammadu Buhari administration’s commitment to the workability of the industry in tune with global practices and zero tolerance for crude oil theft and other shady transactions. “First, we will need to sanitise the oil industry. I believe that we cannot condone losses in crude oil production. We must ensure zero loss. We must not lose crude oil. We must also develop our abundant gas deposits and generally sanitise the sector,” he said. The former governor explained that his visit was to thank the people for the support shown him during the last federal legislative and presidential elections. Sylva, who is also a leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), received some decampees in the town who defected from the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state. The minister thanked the people for the warm reception and confidence reposed in him, assuring them that he would use his new office to attract development to Bayelsa and the entire Niger Delta region. On the forthcoming November 16 governorship election in the state, he promised the people that the APC would win the contest. His words: “APC is winning the governorship election. We are taking it. It is very clear. The deaf can hear, and even the blind can see. It is very clear that we are going to win.” Sylva was accompanied on the trip by the senator representing Bayelsa East, Bishop Biobarakuma Degi; House of Representatives member for Brass-Nembe Federal Constituency, Israel Sunny-Goli; Fakuma Ilagha; member representing Brass Constituency 2 in the State House of Assembly, Timi Omubo-Agala, among other party faithful. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .