 Visser  What is Cambridge Assessment International Education about?
Cambridge Assessment International Education prepares school students for life, helping them develop an informed curiosity and a lasting passion for learning. We are part of the University of Cambridge. Our Cambridge pathway gives students a clear path for educational success from age five to 19. Schools can shape the curriculum around how they want students to learn, with a wide range of subjects and flexible ways to offer them. It helps students discover new abilities and a wider world, and gives them the skills they need for life. What should be a starting point for every student transiting into higher schooling?
Deciding which subjects to study is a critical moment for students, with their choices carrying implications for university study and beyond. But while subject selection requires careful consideration, it needs not be stressful. Based on my years of experience at Cambridge Assessment International Education, I have noticed the most successful students, who also have the highest enjoyment of their subjects make their choices based on a few key considerations. So parents and educators can help and guide their children in their decision-making process, by asking four pertinent questions: what lesson do you most look forward to attending everyday? Where do your strengths lie? How will your subject choice translate into your university plan? And also discuss how the world of work is changing. What should students consider before choosing a career?
Choosing subjects is an important time for students and their families. With so much information and advice available, it’s easy to get lost in choice. Therefore, taking a step back to focus on a student’s interests, abilities and future goals can help them choose the subjects at school that are right for them and their future. Learning more through external resources, whether a website or a career adviser, can also help students to marry their interests and skills with courses that will help them achieve their long-term goals. Also, after almost a decade of schooling, students will most likely have a few subjects that they enjoy studying more than others. Understanding what these subjects are and why they like them can help them pick subjects they enjoy for their last years of schooling. For example, understanding that a student enjoys mathematics because they enjoy problem solving could guide them to take a business studies subject in addition to maths. There are two main academic benefits to taking subjects students enjoy. First, according to a study from the University of Wisconsin, when students enjoy learning, they are more likely to do well in the subject. This may seem obvious but it is often overlooked when students are ‘pushed’ into subjects because of seemingly lucrative careers.  With universities paying close attention to the marks achieved in high school for admission purposes, this can help students achieve better grades when it counts. Secondly, choosing a subject they enjoy can also help students find a course they genuinely enjoy at university as well.  Study from school to university should be a continuum. This will set them up for an enjoyable and successful university career and beyond. How can students discover their academic strengths?
Once a student has narrowed the field of subjects they are interested in, they then need to examine their academic strengths. Having an honest conversation about which subjects are most likely to lead to good marks is crucial. Students need to look at where they can be successful academically in order to achieve the results they will need to support their future ambitions. This may mean having to make a tough decision about where student interests intersect with ability. If a student enjoys physics, for example, but struggles with the learning material and falls short on marks despite putting a lot of effort into the course, this may not be a good fit for a career in engineering or for their future beyond school. How will your subject choice enhance your university plans? 
Once students have narrowed down a list based on interest and potential for success, they should think about how these subjects will translate into what they hope to pursue after high school. Based on what they would like to study at university, students should be aware of the subjects required for a post school education course. If they are looking to gain entrance to a university in Nigeria using Cambridge International qualifications, a student will need to make sure that their choice of Cambridge IGCSE and International ‘AS and A ‘Level subjects meet the minimum requirements for the intended course at the specific university they wish to apply to. This is particularly important if they have a specific career path in mind such as medicine, engineering or law, which may have specific subject requirements. Therefore, students should check the entry requirements carefully for their chosen course well in advance of submitting their application.To find out more about the criteria needed for different further education courses, look at university websites. They will post the requirements for each course on their website – including the subjects that need to have been studied previously and the baseline marks students will need to have achieved in order to be considered for admission. Cambridge International also has a recognitions database, which is an online directory of worldwide organisations that have specifically provided us with formal written acceptance of Cambridge qualifications. Now that the world of work is changing, how would students navigate this trend and come out strong?
Students need to think about the future world of work. In such a rapidly modernising world, we can’t predict exactly what students of today will be doing in the workplace of tomorrow.  Technological development has never been as fast in human history as it is today, and it will never be this slow again! To understand the skills and qualifications they may need for their ideal career, students should speak with a career adviser. The Internet is a readily available source of knowledge to find out what a specific career is all about or what new careers may be looming.
However, base skills in language and numeracy will remain relevant well into the next millennium.  Cambridge believes, for example, that our subjects need to guide learners on the path to becoming critical thinkers, which essentially means they have their own opinion about a topic. And can integrate knowledge from various subjects in a cross-curricula fashion. It can also be helpful to speak to someone already working in an industry that the student might like to work with in the future. They can offer insight into the nature of the work, what subjects will help prepare them to enter the workplace and the skills that are required. These won’t just be practical skills but also transferable skills, such as resilience and problem solving. A student can then take steps to ensure that they are developing these skills while still in school.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .