PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday said Nigerians were anxiously looking up to the judiciary to have the courage to do justice in the presidential election tribunal. According to the party, the general expectation pervading the nation was that the judiciary, as the last hope of the common man, would be undaunted in addressing the substance of the petition by its candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, in the collective quest to retrieve “a stolen mandate through the legal process.” PDP’s National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, who stated this while receiving a Coalition of Young Professionals in Abuja that paid the party a solidarity visit at its National Secretariat, urged Nigerians not to lose faith in the country and its democracy. Ologbondiyan said: “As a party, we have made a solid case before the panel. Our candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, had also presented his case supported by credible evidence. We had presented incontrovertible evidence to show that our presidential mandate was stolen. Every Nigerian now looks on to the judicial officers for justice. “Nigerians are waiting and hoping that the judiciary will have the courage to do justice in the presidential election petition. “In the face of the anguish, pains, calamitous events, bloodletting, strong division, resentment, insecurity, acute hunger and starvation crippling our country, Nigerians’ only hope is now in the judiciary to save our nation by addressing the substance of the petition by Atiku and the PDP. “Our party urges Nigerians not to lose hope in their nation because we have no other country to call our own. Even the judicial officers are also Nigerians, so we must keep hope alive believing that, like I said earlier, the judiciary will consider the substance of the matter and the evidence before it.” The PDP thanked Nigerians for the solidarity and support in the struggle and assured of its determination to pursue the cause to a logical conclusion. According to Ologbondiyan, “our party has continued to receive immense support from Nigerians from all walks of lives on this struggle and even in the diaspora. This is one cause that has united Nigerians, irrespective of ethnicity, creed and political leaning. Earlier at the meeting, the Convener of the Coalition, Alhaji Shehu Abubakar Magaji, commended the leadership of the party for effectively mobilising Nigerians in the 2019 general elections in the collective quest to rescue the nation from the alleged misrule of the APC. He assured that Nigerians were “solidly behind the PDP and Atiku Abubakar in the efforts to reclaim the presidential mandate through the courts.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .