American actor Dwayne “the Rock” Johnson revealed on Monday that he and longtime girlfriend, singer Lauren Hashian, tied the knot on Sunday in Hawaii. In the wedding photos, Johnson wore a white shirt and white pants – Hawaiian style. While Hashian wore a long white lace dress with a low-cut neckline and long train. The retired wrestling professional posted the wedding photos on his Instagram: “We do. August 18th, 2019. Pōmaikaʻi (blessed).”   We do.  August 18th, 2019. Hawaii. Pōmaikaʻi (blessed)  @laurenhashianofficial @hhgarcia41 A post shared by  therock (@therock) on Aug 19, 2019 at 3:27am PDT  Johnson and Hashian first met in 2006 while the actor was filming The Game Plan and started dating in 2007. “I was so fortunate to have fallen in love once. To fall in love again? That’s a hard thing to do twice in the position I’m in. I’m one lucky son of a (expletive).” The Jungle Book star told People in 2012. The couple have two children together: Jasmine Lia, 3, and Tiana Gia, 1. Johnson also has an 18-year-old daughter, Simone Alexandra Johnson, from his previous marriage to Dany Garcia, which ended in 2007. Hashian previously gushed over the Jungle Book star in May on his birthday: “Every single day I wake up grateful… smiling, laughing at something you said, or something that’s happening in our now very busy home,” she wrote in an Instagram post. “Even the imperfections of life, the ups and the downs, make this all perfect somehow. Because you’re always aiming to grow, get better, gain wisdom from every situation, and genuinely learn from them. You never stop those things. You inspire me. You have the GREATEST heart (and the greatest vocabulary) of anyone I know And g*d damn do I love you.” In July 2018, when Johnson was asked the possibility of marrying Hashian after years of referring to her as his “wife.” “I just refer to her as my wife all the time. So a lot of people are like, ‘Oh, did you get married?’” he explained at the time. “I’m like, ‘No. Easy. Don’t rush big daddy.”