Ondo State Governor, Mr Oluwarotimi Akeredolu Ikale Central Organisation (ICO) has appealed to Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State to end the curfew imposed on Ago-Alaye to enable its representatives send their submission to his panel of inquiry. The state government had on Monday, August 5, inaugurated a panel to look into the land crisis between Ikale people and their Araromi-Obu neighbours. ICO lamented that the event that followed the July 18 visit of Akeredolu to the affected communities smacked of bias, as free movement was allowed in Araromi-Obu while curfew was slammed on Ago-Alaye. “We appeal to our executive governor to put an end to the curfew, so that the affected persons can resume their normal lives and be able to present their case to the committee, just like their aggressors,” the group stated. This was contained in a statement issued to journalists yesterday in Akure by ICO chairman, Bayo Ehinmosan, and secretary, Akinyemi Aiyebiwo. Hell was let loose in the two communities in Okitipupa Council on July 16 over a High Court judgement that favoured the Ikale people, leading to loss of lives and property. Ehinmosan, who lauded the governor for efforts to end the crisis, however, noted that the current situation of things would hinder fairness in the resolution of the dispute. His words: “Essentially, two communities are directly affected by the crisis. Members of the two communities are expected to step out before the committee to present their respective sides of the story to the committee. “However, as things are now, only one side of the conflict, the side that initiated aggression, is free to present her story.” However, due to allegations of bias against the state, Akeredolu has cautioned government officials against making public comment on the dispute. In a statement made available to journalists by the Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Media and Publicity, Mr. Ojo Oyewamide, the government insisted that “this action becomes imperative to allow the panel set up by government to be dispassionate in its assignments. The statement read in part: “Mr. Governor’s belief in the sanctity of the process already put in place underscores the need for all to avoid the path of sub judice. “Nonetheless, this directive does not in any way inhibit private suggestions from individuals to the panel by way of memorandum on issues that will promote a more harmonious relationship between the affected communities.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .