The attack on the immediate past Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, in Nuremberg, Germany during the annual New Yam festival has continued to elicit reactions from Nigerians, both at home and in the diaspora. The latest to join in with his reaction is the Grammy-nominated Nigerian music star, Seun Kuti, In a recent sitdown with Objectvmedia, Kuti gave his thoughts on the assault on Ekweremadu when he was attacked at the New Yam Festival in Nuremberg, Germany on August 17th. Seun Kuti In his reaction, Kuti who is the youngest son of the legendary Nigerian musician, afrobeat pioneer and activist, Fela Anikulapo Kuti has said that he was in Europe when the attack on Ekweremadu took place. Seun who is just as critical of the actions and inactions of the Nigerian government like his late father said, ”What I would say is that next time any group of Nigerians are planning to beat up any Nigerian politician, and they don’t let me know about it, I will be very offended. That is the only thing I have to say about that because I was in Europe. The more hands, the merrier”. Watch the video below:   Seun Kuti: On Revolution, Ekweremadu’s “Yam Festival” featuring IPOB & FBI List of Nigerian Names… Full video on YouTube via link > https://youtu.be/PTO-ydXAq-k A post shared by  ObjecTV Media (@objectvmedia) on Aug 27, 2019 at 1:35pm PDT  It would be recalled that on the issue of yahoo boys in Nigeria, Seun had said, “The yahoo boy is the legitimate child of the political and business elites. Our ability as Nigerians to pick and choose what criminals to hate and what criminals to jump and dance for is the reason we can’t develop especially when the criminals we shuck and jive for are the real devils.” In 2018, Black Times, by Seun Kuti was nominated for the Grammys, under the World Music Category. This makes Seun the second child of the late Fela Anikulapo Kuti to be considered for this award, as his elder brother, Femi Kuti has been previously nominated in 2003, 2010, 2012 and 2013 without a win.[10] In June 2019, Kuti was featured in the Visual Collaborative electronic catalogue, under the Polaris series, he was interviewed on Pan-African awareness, his country and music