 This year’s International Pairs competition will begin at the golf section of the Ikoyi Club 1938 tomorrow  The competition, which is already generating excitement within the Club, will feature golfers drawn from Ikeja, Lakowe Lakes Golf and Country Club, Dolphin Golf Club and other golfers from neighbouring states of Oyo, Osun, and Ogun. The Lagos leg of the qualifiers, Olukoya added, would be followed by Northern regional qualifiers, which will hold at the IBB International Golf and Country Club in Abuja on September 6 and 7, 2019, before the South-South/South Eastern regional qualifiers will hold at Arsenal Golf Club, Owerri on September 20 and 21, 2019 The 2019 event is sponsored by AirFrance, CAP Plc, Megamound Investment, RwandAir, Hilton Legend Hotel, SevenUp, Lords Gin and DO. II Designs among others. Speaking ahead of this year’s event in Lagos on Wednesday, Olukoya said many innovations have been added to this year’s event to make it more attractive, noting that so many prizes have been lined up at the regional qualifiers level and more at the national finals in Uyo on October 4 to 6, 2019. As expected, winners at the national finals will be given an all-expense-paid trip to the world finals of International Pairs in Portugal from November 19 to 23, 2019, while flying Business Class on AirFrance. Those who want to take part in the World VIP Guests events are not left out as they will also enjoy a 15 percent discount on AirFrance flights to Lisbon Portugal, Olukoya added. “There are two business class tickets to Kigali & Cape Town up for grabs during this event courtesy of RwandAir.” There will be weekend stays at Legend Lagos Airport and Transcorp Hilton Hotel Abuja. We shall also be selling raffle tickets and shall be giving away some exquisite furniture pieces by Do. II Designs. “The whole essence of this event is to raise funds for the setting up of Falcon Golf Academy to develop young boys and girls to be educated golf professionals in the future,” he explained. This year’s edition of International Pairs is the fifth in its series. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .