5 Phone Photography Hacks For Beginners. PHOTO: Unsplash Phone photography is an art. It takes more than just a great phone camera or lens to produce great photography. With the tips listed below, you’re on your way to becoming a professional photographer with your smartphone. Turn on the gridline. The gridline breaks down your photograph into thirds, both horizontally and vertically. It helps to balance your photograph. Using the gridline is the easiest and most effective way to improve the quality of your mobile shot.  Most smartphone camera comes with autofocus however it doesn’t always focus where you want it to. You should set the focus point manually to ensure that your subject is always in sharp focus. Move Closer To The Object. PHOTO: Unsplash When you zoom in on the subject, a lot of details get lost. When you take pictures from a distance, the pictures get blurry and pixelated. Move closer to the subject. Perspective is the second most important thing [we’ll discuss the most important in the next point]. Don’t just stand and snap like everyone else. Most people just snap straight-on, walk around and try a different angle. Light is the most important thing in photography. Light is a photographer’s best friend – without it, there is no image. Natural light is the light from the sun. Try to The flash, oftentimes than not, ruins what would have been a perfect shot. Use it sparsely. Below is a list of mobile editing apps that you can use to enhance your photographs. Adobe Lightroom CC offers another comprehensive suite of tools. Adobe Lightroom CC is free on iOS and Android. Snapseed provides an extensive set of editing tools with a simple, usable interface. The “Selective Adjust” tool is what makes Snapseed unique. This feature allows you to pinpoint an area in a photo and adjust the brightness, contrast, and saturation of that single point. Snapseed is free on iOS and Android. What makes VSCO stand out among other mobile photo editing is its extensive suite of filters. It is easy and simple to use for beginning photographers. VSCO is free on iOS and Android.