A civil society organisation Independent hajj Reporters has applauded the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for efficient diplomatic discharge and execution of hajj 2019 exercise. The official body that report hajj activities in Nigeria specifically commended the dexterity of Saudi Arabia Ambassador in Nigeria Adnan Bin Mahmoud Bostaji in the inroad to the spiritual activities. A statement signed by its national coordinator, Ibrahim Muhammed , on Friday said the hajj reporters stressed that the enabling platform afforded journalists by the Saudi authorities in the coverage of hajj activities has change the narrative of hajj coverage in Nigeria. “During 2018 hajj, for example, Mr Adnan Bostaji resumed office as Ambassador to Nigeria just a week before the commencement of airlift of intending pilgrims; yet, he personally attended the inaugural flight ceremony held at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International airport Abuja. He also waited until the flight departed before he left,” Muhammed said. ”Secondly, the Saudi embassy organised a special iftar during Ramadan fast and Mr Bostaji not only personally stood at the gate to welcome all guests but mentioned each one present by their first name as he went round to greet his guests. ”Those who are fortunate to have an interface with the ambassador are often quite surprised that the representative of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques can be so accessible to virtually anyone that desire to meet him. Moreso his the decision to make his contacts available to Journalists and stakeholders in hajj industry is exemplary”. The CSO said the ambassador’s conducts have proved more than ever the words of Woodrow Wilson that “open covenants, openly arrived at” remains a superior guide to foreign policy. ”We also use this opportunity to restate our commitment to relay the hospitality and uncommon gesture of the Saudi Arabian government towards millions of Muslim Ummah that visit the Kingdom yearly as part of our little contribution to promoting Islam in the Media. ”We thank the ambassador for sustaining and consolidating the age-long relationship between Nigeria and Saudi Arabia, especially during hajj operation in the Media, ” IHR said. The civil society, however, urges Mr Bostaji to introduce an annual parley with Muslim Media personalities who have devoted time and contribute more to promoting Islam in order to create a bond between Nigeria and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The statement further said “his support to hajj and Umrah exercise made the Nigeria hajj apex regulatory body to issue a commendation letter in appreciation of his cooperation and support. “Also, his commitment and support to Nigerian media in the coverage of hajj activities in Nigeria is historical in the context of what is obtained before his arrival. ”We consider this diplomatic finesse as a contributory factor to the success recorded in Hajj operations so far and hope he will continue to operate his open diplomatic structure for the benefit of our dear pilgrims and Muslim Ummah in general”.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .