Multiple award-winning actress, Juliet Ibrahim was recently a guest on Linda Ikeji TV (LITV) and the Ghanaian screen star opened up about her personal life. The ‘A Toast To Life’ author opened up about having had bad relationships with one of such relationships being with an ‘entertainer’. Juliet Ibrahim | Photo – News of Africa In her chat with LITV, she also opened up about what she desires in a man saying that she wants a man who is honest and blunt. She said: “I don’t look for things in people. I don’t try to have expectations. But I know that if I meet someone and he’s honest enough and that spark is there… that’s what I look for. I like honesty. I like people who are blunt, from the beginning you just pour it all out.” On her celebrity crush, she revealed that she has a crush on international singer, Chris Brown and she even added jokingly that she has sent him direct messages but no reply from him. She said: “I want to date Chris Brown. I don’t know, I like him. I have a crush on him. Why do you want to know my secret? The DMs upon DMs that I don send, e no dey read am.” On a more serious note, she added, “I think if I want to meet him, it’s very easy. I know people that know him sort of. But, I just have a crush on him, so it’s not like… But if he comes, we’ll go on that date oh.” Chris Brown. Photo credit: Billboards During the interview, she also addressed a range of other issues like the inspiration behind her book. She revealed that “A Toast To Life” was written after she had a near-death experience. According to her, she suffered an accident that nearly cost her her life. When she came out alive, she decided to quit procrastinating and write about her life experiences and this birthed her new autobiography. Discussing the book with LITV, the actress spoke about being caught in the middle of civil wars, which caused her and her family to lose their home and move to another country where they became refugees. Watch the video of the interview below. Her comments about her crush on Brown starts from the 36:09 minutes mark:  We recently reported that Ibrahim slammed a Ghanaian on-air-personality who advised her to go back to her ex-husband Kwadwo Safor and stop waiting for a Mr Right. Ibrahim married Safor in 2010 but the marriage was dissolved in 2014 on grounds of infidelity and Ibrahim has since seemingly moved on.