The leader of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) Ibrahim El-Zakzaky and his wife, Zeenat Tuesday arrived in India. El-Zakzaky and Zeenat left Nigeria Monday evening around 6:45 pm for India for medical check-up aboard Emirate flight flight EK786 at about 6:45 pm en route Dubai to Mumbai, India. Before his departure, operatives of the Department of State Services (DSS) the Nigeria Police laid siege to the International wing of the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport (NAIA), Abuja from 1:30 pm to about 3:30 pm. The Shiites leader arrived at the airport at about 3:00 pm via the Kaduna -Abuja rail service into the international wing of the airport. The Shiites leader and his wife have been in the detention of the Nigeria government since 2015. El-Zakzky is facing an eight-count of culpable homicide, unlawful assembly and disturbance of public peace. Although a state high court ordered their release in 2015, the government kept the Shiites leader in detention because he is ‘a threat to national security’. However, El-Zakzaky’s lawyer Femi Falana petitioned the government to release the Shiites leader to seek medical treatment abroad since November 2015. Falana said eight medical reports attached to the bail suit showed that the Shiites leader needs urgent medical attention in Egypt. “Doctors have confirmed that he has lost an eye and the second one may be lost on account of advanced glaucoma. Secondly, pellets in his body have not been removed,” said Falana. A Kaduna High Court Monday, August 5 finally granted El-Zakzaky and his wife Zeenat permission to travel out of the country for medical attention. Prior to his release, his Shiites group was proscribed by the Nigerian government and declared a terrorist organisation. “In consequence, henceforth, any person engaged or associating, in any manner that could advance the activities of the proscribed Islamic Movement in Nigeria, shall be treated as a terrorist, enemy of the State,” Nigeria’s inspector-general of police Mohammed Adamu said at a press conference in Abuja. The group has since sued the Nigerian government over the proscription. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .