 The national men’s basketball team, D’Tigers, are putting finishing touches to their preparations for the China 2019 FIBA World Cup, which begins…this weekend.<br />  Coming on the heels of huge success at the Peak Invitational Championship in which the D’Tigers defeated better-ranked teams to win the trophy, there is this optimism that Nigeria could give Africa its best performance in the history of the World Cup. But the question is: Who are the gladiators? Yesterday, D’Tigers’ Vincent Nnamdi told the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF) Media that the players are resolved to support whoever is chosen to fly the country’s flag in China. With the competition becoming so stiff amongst the players in camp, the shooting guard said the pressure is definitely on the coaching crew led by Alex Nwora rather than the players. Vincent who plies his trade with NBA franchise, Stockton Kings, said the boys in the camp were fully focused on the task ahead of their first game on Saturday against Russia. “I don’t think there is any pressure. I think the biggest pressure is on the coaching crew to take that decision. “As I said, we have a lot of great talent, great athletes here so it will be a tough decision for them to make.” Vincent, who scored 23 points, including the game-winning three-pointer against Poland on Saturday during the Peak Invitational Tournament, expressed confidence that the team could go all out to win the World Cup. “I think the sky is the limit for us. I think we can go as far as winning the championship. We have a lot of talents, skill, size and I think we are very capable of doing it.” He commended the NBBF for the grade A friendlies, which have in no small way contributed to their level of preparation. Nnamdi explained that playing against fellow World Cup-bound teams (Dominican Republic, Canada, Iran, Poland, and Montenegro) has really helped their confidence. “The first three games, we were still getting the team together. It is good the way we performed and it is good to always get the win. We definitely have a lot of confidence. “We have a lot of confidence. We are a confident group and we definitely looking forward to being in China,” Nnamdi said. He believes that irrespective of the coaches’ decision, it remains an honour to represent Nigeria. “It is an honour to be here and to be part of this process and represent the nation,” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .