 [File] Mr Babatunde Fowler, FTAX Chairman. PHOTO/TWITTER/FIRS  The New Tax
THE Partner/Head of Tax and Corporate Advisory Services at PwC Nigeria, Taiwo Oyedele, said the proposal is part of measures being introduced to address issues bothering on the digital economy, generally believed that huge economic activities are being conducted without the payment of commensurate taxes.In an exclusive chat with The Guardian, the tax expert also said that the overriding objective of the latest move is to shore up government’s revenue.
 
“The proposal is to charge VAT on all online transactions carried out by individuals and companies based in Nigeria regardless of whether the transactions are sourced from Nigeria or outside the country.“The intention is to appoint payment settlement institutions such as banks, credit and debit cards providers as agents of the FIRS for the purpose of charging and accounting for VAT on online transactions. 
 
“The VAT will apply on all online transactions that are liable to VAT, including goods and services. In principle, VAT is already being charged and collected on online purchase of goods. In the case of products supplied within Nigeria, the sellers would already charge VAT on the goods failing which they can be audited by the FIRS. “In the case of goods ordered from foreign online suppliers like Amazon, the applicable VAT should normally be collected by customs upon importation except where the goods are VAT exempt or below the chattel exemption threshold.
 
“There is also no problem with online services provided by suppliers based in Nigeria such as Multichoice since FIRS can enforce VAT on their sales where applicable.“The major challenge is therefore with respect to online services and purchases relating to intellectual property from foreign suppliers such as Netflix and Facebook,” he said.
 
But speaking on the possibility of a double tax in the process and the need for government to play big in the social contract, he admitted that if the proposal is not properly implemented, there is a risk of double charge, while government must close the gap of social distrust.
 
“For instance, if a subscriber is making a payment for Pay TV subscription, which already includes, directing the bank or payment service provider to charge VAT again during payment settlement will amount to double charge. “In a recent national survey conducted by the Nigerian Economic Summit Group, about two in every three adults do not trust government with their taxes and hence about 83 percent of individuals and nearly 70 per cent of businesses do not consider tax evasion as wrong. 
 
“With such a high level of apathy towards tax, it is impossible to move the needle on revenue generation.“Government at all levels must urgently start taking steps to address fiscal transparency issues in order to build the much needed trust in the system,” he added.
Also, Dr. Titilayo Eni-tan Fowokan, said that FIRS is planning to mandate banks to deduct the levy on online transactions for goods and services through use of bank cards so as to increase revenue for government.
 
“This is referred to as levy, but misunderstood as VAT. VAT cannot be applied twice on a single transaction. To the best of our knowledge, the levy is in addition to five percent VAT already included in the price of goods and services purchased online. In essence, it is a levy on online transaction,” Fowokan said.
 
The Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria explained that such charge amounts to double taxation and increases the cost of goods or services purchased online and indirectly discouraging online transactions. “In short, it is not in line with the provisions of the VAT Act. There is need for fiscal transparency. The tax burden on citizens is getting too much, without commensurate benefit.  The Issues
Besides the initial pains of the possible double taxation from the implementation of the plan, Nigerians are raising issues with the management of the country’s resources, alleging that there is no clear-cut accountability process and transparency,A development consultant and public affairs analyst, Jide Ojo, had told The Guardian at commencement of Stamp Duty policy that the enforcement was a welcome development, but raised concerns about remittances of the deducted values. Today, stamp duty deductions are more of tales and “wait and see.”
 
“Transparent and accountable mechanisms must therefore, be in place so that the public is duly informed about income from this source and what it is being used for,” he said.Once the plan comes on board, every transaction within its threshold will be charged. Adebunmi, a small business owner, said he is worried about how the deductions will start and where it will lead to, adding that it would be another avenue to shortchange people, through over-deductions.
 
“Now that we have started using the electronic channels, they are now coming to scare us away. This will make some to avoid patronizing these online cloth sellers,” he said.A banker, who identified herself as Jumo, said that what Nigeria should be talking about now with respect to tax, is something that is very clear, especially when it concerns digital space and the 2020 target of the financial inclusion.
 
“I am not opposed to tax because I am tax compliant. But difficult areas that can create fears should be planned properly, while the issue getting the political elites and their cronies to pay tax should be enforced.“Every time, helpless Nigerians are boxed to a corner and made to lose their businesses is not the desired policy. I know how some of them lament inside the banking hall,” she said.
An importer, Mr. IK Nwachi, queried why this government is not talking how people are faring, except taking from the people managing to overcome the economic difficulties.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .