Detoxification is about resting, cleaning, and nourishing the body from the inside out. By eliminating toxins and nourishing your body, detoxification can help protect you from disease and renew your ability to maintain optimal health. The liver plays an important role in the body. While it largely takes care of itself, a person can help maintain liver health by consuming some certain foods and drinks. Here is a list of drinks that help in natural cleansing and detoxification of the liver. Coffee is good for the liver, especially because it protects against issues such as fatty liver disease. According to a 2014 study that appears in the Journal of Clinical Gastroenterology,the protective effects of coffee are due to how it influences liver enzymes. The journal reports that coffee seems to reduce fat buildup in the liver. It also increases protective antioxidantsin the liver. Compounds in coffee also help liver enzymes rid the body of cancer-causing substances. Ginger and lemon drink is a classic detox drink that has powerful anti-inflammatory properties that not only detoxify your body but also accelerate the process of weight loss. This concotion helps in relieving bloating, boosts metabolism and prevents illness. Ginger and lemon drink | Photo – Times of India Oats are high in fibre, minerals, and vitamins, that help in cleaning the intestines and liver and help digestion. A 2017 study in the International Journal of Molecular Sciences reports, beta-glucans from oats appear to help reduce the amount of fat stored in the liver in mice. The oatmeal drink is a perfect detox drink that helps in flushing out toxins from the body. Used for centuries in Ayurveda, turmeric is a powerful spice. One of the best ways to get rid of toxic in our body is to drink turmeric tea daily. A 2015 study in the World Journal of Gastroenterology notes that green tea may help reduce overall fat content, fight against oxidative stress, and reduce other signs of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). The World Journal of Gastroenterology study also mentions grapefruit as a helpful food. Grapefruit contains two primary antioxidants: naringin and naringenin. These may help protect the liver from injury by reducing inflammation and protecting the liver cells. The compounds may also reduce fat buildup in the liver and increase the enzymes that burn fat. This may make grapefruit a helpful tool in the fight against NAFLD. SOURCE and SOURCE The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.