 ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo  A statement issued by his aide yesterday disclosed that Dankwanbo’s escape occurred on Tuesday when the former governor’s convoy ran into the abductors on their way to Abuja, saying the incident was recorded on a video clip. “On our way to Abuja kidnappers blocked the Abuja-Kaduna road at 4.35pm, but our policemen chased them away and we found out that they abducted many people. “The Kaduna-Abuja road is now a danger zone. Today, kidnappers blocked the road and were abducting passengers when Dankwambo’s convoy arrived the scene. His security details fired shots and dispersed them, but they went away with many persons,” the statement reads.However, three persons were killed during the operation. A commercial vehicle driver, Jibrin Adamu, who escaped the attack, told journalists that the gunmen blocked a spot around Olam Farm, where they killed three persons and kidnapped about a dozen others.“The gunmen blocked the expressway and opened fire on vehicles driving by. They kidnapped dozens of people during the operation and took them into the bush. When contacted, Kaduna state Police Command spokesman, DSP Yakubu Sabo, promised to inquire from the divisional police officer (DPO) in the area and revert to journalists. Meanwhile, management of the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, confirmed that three students of the institution were kidnapped and later released them.The students were among the victims that were kidnapped along the Abuja-Kaduna Highway.Director, Public Affairs Directorate, ABU, Dr. Ismai’l Shehu, told The Guardian that armed bandits kidnapped three final year students of the Faculty of Law. Also, kidnappers have abducted younger sister to Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa’s wife, identified as Elizabeth, but the state Commissioner of Police (CP), Adeleke Adeyinka, denied knowledge of the abduction. Insiders at Government House, Asaba, confirmed that Elizabeth was actually seized since last weekend, close to Temple Clinic junction, which is a stone throw from Government House.  However, some suspects have been arrested in an attempt to secure her release To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .