Nigeria Squash Federation President, Boye Oyerinde (left), overall champion of the 15th Annual Cargolux Merchant Express Squash Tournament, Dr. Olubunmi Apata, Chairman Cargolux Merchant Express, Captain Sina Akinfenwa and the President of the Lagos Country Club, Chief Tajudeen Akande, during the award presentation at the Lagos Country Club Ikeja. • Nigerian squash now has international recognition, says Ogunsusi 
Yemeni Olatunji at the weekend defeated her younger sister, Busayo 3-1 to win the PSA women category of the 15th edition of the Cargolux Merchant Express International Squash Tournament, which ended at the Lagos Country Club at the weekend. In the competition that featured over 10 clubs from across the country, Onaopemipo Adegoke beat Sodiq Taiwo in three straight sets top win the PSA Men’s category of the competition. Other winners at the event included the Captain of the Squash Section, Dr. Olubunmi Apata, who emerged the overall winner after defeating the reigning champion, Hanniel Hadison by three sets to one. In the girls’ U–16 category, Favour Utukpe of Lagos State defeated Mistura Durosinolorun from Kwara State by three straight sets, while Joseph Eniafogghe beat Dominion Utupke also by three straight sets in the Boys’ category.Kudirat Dahood overwhelmed Aminat Musa in the U-19 girls by three sets to one and Usman Durosinlorun defeated Cliton Iguodala by three sets to two for the Boys of the same category. The Club Invitational Veteran category produced Sahid Khan of the University of Lagos as the champion. He beat Sodi Pepple by three straight sets, while Mrs. Kolawole won the Women’s category of the LCC Closed Club by defeating Mrs. Hadison.Among the participating clubs in the tournament were Lagos Country Club, Ikoyi Club, O’Trafford Squash Club, UNILAG Staff Club, Eko Club, Police College Club and Lagos State Civil Service Club. Others were Ibadan Recreational Club, Benin Club, OAU Squash Club, Port Harcourt Club, NLNG Club Bonny, Yenagoa Sports Club, Jacob Esuene Club, Eket; and Shell Club, Port Harcourt.Players in various categories from the veterans to the junior cadre went home with different prizes, courtesy of Cargolux Merchant Express. Speaking at the end of the competition, chairman of the Squash Section of the Lagos Country Club, Ayo Ogunsusi expressed his delight with the level of professionalism exhibited by the players.Ogunsusi said: “The competition has grown in leaps and bounds over the years that the Professional Squash Association (PSA) has given it recognition.” The Chairman of Cargolux Merchant Express, Captain Sina Akinfenwa also commended the Lagos Country Club for sustaining the tournament.
“I am impressed by the rapid growth and acceptance by Nigerians of the squash game as a lot of participants from different parts of the country and beyond registered for the tournament,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .