 Imo State Governor, Emeka Ihedioha (second left), Heartland FC of Owerri Coach, Mr. Fidelis Ilechukwu (middle), Board Chairman, Charles Ezekwem, (left), Club Manager, Mr. Chidi Fortune  (second right) and former Green Eagles’ Captain, Mr. Henry Nwosu (right) during the unveiling of the new coach in Owerri… yesterday.  Ilechukwu, who left Lagos club, MFM, at the end of last season, is the current coach of the national U-23 team. Heartland’s Board Chairman, Charles Babatunde Ezekwem and other members of the management team in Owerri yesterday, presented the gaffer to Governor Ihedioha. Ezekwem said the appointment of the new coach followed due consultations and discussions with key stakeholders, stressing that they had no doubt that he would succeed based on his experience and antecedents. He thanked the governor for giving them the opportunity to contribute their quota to the growth, development, and success of the club while assuring him of their commitment to take the club to continental competitions. Responding, Ihedioha urged the club to work hard to return the club to the zenith of the country’s club football. Ihedioha reiterated the commitment of his administration to harnessing the sports potential of the state and to giving the club the needed support to succeed. He reminded the new coach of the task and expectations of the fans and entire Imo people from him and charged him to among other things instill discipline and commitment in his team, saying such was needed to take the club to high levels. He said, “Imo is a sports-loving state. You have a duty and the expectations, which is huge from millions of fans of Heartland to take the club to the next level. “I urge you to take advantage of the board that is desirous to win laurels for the state; to take advantage of their passion to put in your best. “On our part as government, we shall endeavour to support you to succeed. We expect and believe that you are going to instill discipline and sanity in the football club. “We have taken positive steps to renovate the Dan Anyiam Stadium, all geared towards encouraging your success and that of your team in your competitions.” The governor commended the board and management of the team for their ingenuity and efforts to take the club to an enviable height and urged them to remain diligent, patriotic and passionate towards the success of the club. Speaking after shortly after the unveiling ceremony, the new coach assured the fans and Imo people that they would henceforth see his impact through the results and successes of the team when the season resumes. He said his focus was to reposition the team in line with the policy of the state government to make lasting and positive impacts on sports and the state in general.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .