We reported earlier that Big Brother Naija 2019 housemate, Khafi who is a serving Metropolitan Police officer in the United Kingdom (UK) is under investigation for appearing on the show without approval. On Monday, August 12, The Sun UK shared a tweet about it’s next day cover story which read: “Tomorrow’s front page: A police poster girl is facing the sack after having steamy bedroom romps on TV” which is being talked about in Nigerian social media space.” The Sun in its report said a Met spokesperson in a statement said: “The Met is aware that the officer has since appeared on the show without authority. The Directorate of Professional Standards has been informed and will be carrying out an investigation into the circumstances. The Met does not support the officer’s appearance nor does she represent the Met whilst appearing on the show. All officers have a duty to behave with professionalism and in a manner that does not bring the Met into disrepute whether on or off duty. Those who do not behave professionally risk breaching police standards of professional behaviour, and may be dealt with by way of misconduct proceedings.” BBNaija Khafi | Photo – Instagram In it’s reaction to the story, Khafi’s management described the story as defamatory and fake while also slamming the media outlet for not contacting them to hear their side of the story. The press release reads in part: “At NO time did The Sun UK send a mail of inquiry to Khafi’s official email which is blasted across her social media platforms under active management to confirm or refute the claims in the publication.” In its statement, Khafi’s management also revealed that it is considering legal options. “We demand an immediate retraction of the publication by The Sun UK and a public apology to our client, Khafilat Kareem within the next 48 hours. Legal options are also being considered at this time.” It would be recalled that Khafi is currently engaged in a steamy romance with another housemate, Gedoni and the duo are often spotted together.