Many of us eat guavas but throw away the leaves without thought to the health benefits that the leaves possess. They contain high levels of vitamins A and C, potassium, healthy fiber and lycopene. In this article, we have listed some amazing health benefits of guava leaves that you should know about. Guava leaves reduce the risk of heart diseases and strokes because of its high anti-inflammatory, high fiber, and antioxidant properties. Circulation of blood to the brain is aided by vitamins B6 (pyridoxine) and B3 (niacin) found in guava thereby stimulating cognitive function and relaxing the nerves.
Immune Booster Guava leaves’ tea helps in boosting the immune systems and reduce the risk of many diseases. Guava leaves will boost sperm production thereby increasing fertility. Hence, it’s highly recommended for men battling with fertility problems. Guava leaves tea will boost libido in both sexes. Work better when honey is added (in non-diabetics). Guava leaf contains quercetin which makes it effective in reducing pain and eliminating infections. Guava leaves | Photo – Style Craze The same quercetin also acts as an antihistamine and anti-inflammatory which inhibits the development of allergies such as food allergy, skin reactions, and asthma. Guava leaves tea is good for cloth menses, painful menstruation, and insufficient menstrual flow.
Weight Loss Again quercetin found in guava leaf inhibits the formation of fat cells and Catechin which has fats burning effects in the body. Guava leaf tea stops carbohydrates from turning into sugar and thus suppresses appetite. This will, in turn, help you to reduce weight. Guava leaf tea is exceptionally good for most abdominal infections because of its antibacterial properties. Guava leaf contains Methanol extract that’s composed of volatile oil, flavonoid, and saponin which works against stomach ulcers and also promote healing effect. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.