Luck has shone on American rapper, Rakim Mayers, popularly known as A$AP Rocky regarding the verdict of his recent involvement in an assault case and incarceration in Sweden. It was earlier reported that a Swedish court ruled that rapper A$AP Rocky was guilty of misdemeanour assault, however, the verdict states he would not need to serve jail time. In a published ruling from the Swedish District Court, a judge ruled that Rocky (born Rakim Mayers) and two of his associates also involved in the assault would be put on informal probation. The court said that no fines or community service were justified in light of Rocky having spent nearly five weeks behind bars during the pre-trial detention period. But the court said that Rocky and his fellow defendants would have to pay about $1,300 in restitution to the victim of the assault, 19-year-old Mustafa Jafari — less than half the amount Jafari had requested — and nearly $21,000 for Jafari’s legal fees. NEW YORK, NY – SEPTEMBER 13: ASAP Rocky attends Rihanna’s 4th Annual Diamond Ball benefitting The Clara Lionel Foundation at Cipriani Wall Street on September 13, 2018 in New York City. Dimitrios Kambouris/Getty Images for Diamond Ball/AFP  The court also said that beyond the restitution and legal fees it did not fine Rocky or require community service in light of him having served so much jail time already. A judge released Rocky on August 2 and he returned home to the United States while awaiting the verdict. Two other defendants that were locked up with Rocky were also released from Swedish detention after the judge found them not to be a flight risk. Rocky’s arrest and jailing in Stockholm attracted international attention from celebrities including Kanye West and Kim Kardashian, as well as President Donald Trump, who urged Swedish authorities to release the rapper after he was jailed. The rapper made his first post-jail concert appearance on Sunday at the Real Street Festival in Anaheim, California, calling his jail time in Sweden a “scary, humbling experience.”