Although it is generally believed that many trends look great on skinny figures (we see more of skinny models on the runway), there are still some key items every skinny woman should invest in and some fashion no-no’s that are best avoided. Due to the believe that almost everything looks good on skinny body types, it is sometimes hard to find useful fashion tips for skinny figure. Now, what exactly can a slim girl rock and what outfit or fashion trend should she stay far away from? Read on to find some fashion tips for skinny girls to achieve your desired result. Woman using a waist belt | Photo – Misguided A skinny girl needs all the curves she can gets and belts can help you achieve this. Invest in slim belts in various colours and also bigger ones and pair them with tops or dresses for an even slimmer looking waist and wider looking hips. Peplum style has been saving skinny girls from time immemorial and that is one of the many reasons this trend is not going anywhere anytime soon. You can add curves with peplum style dresses and tops as the fitted top and flared out bottom pattern of these outfits make for perfect styling as they provide additional layers which are key for the slim girl. Accesorised outfit | Photo – FabWoman Diamonds may be a girl’s best friend but all types of jewellery are the skinny girl’s best friend. You can’t have enough of jewelries as a skinny girl because it gives you a fuller-looking body frame so don’t be afraid to pile on the bangles, bracelets and neck-pieces. Ruffles, bows and a generally busy neckline is really great for slim girls as it creates some more volume to their silhouette which is key. Scoop, round and square necklines are also great because they create room for a cleavage which also creates volume in the upper region. These necklines can also be paired with busy neck-pieces. Playing with colours | Misguided Bright colours and patterns are another great trends which slim girls can embrace wholeheartedly because it makes for a better body frame creating the much-needed volume which slim girls need. To draw attention away from the upper half of your body you can invest in bright shoes, trousers or skirts, The empire waist style is cinched in at the waist and then falls gracefully out in a flared manner. The cut of the empire waist is great for slim girls because it creates a fuller figure. Add more silhoutte with dramatic necklines. To fill out the bust area, opt for shirts or dresses that feature heavy prints and colors, as well as details like pleats , ruffles, twists, knots, or ruching at the bodice. If you have a flat bust, opt for a dress with sequins, jewels, or a bow near the collar area to help out your bust. Draping at the neckline can be a very flattering style for small-busted figures, but avoid very deep cleavage such as V-neckline and play fairly with the chest. You may as well wear tops and dresses with ruffled necklines or play with collar that is high and chunky including the turtle neck, high cowl-neck, or mandarin collars.