Pearly Bleuwaters International, a management and IT consultancy firm, has reiterated its å to supporting businesses with technology solutions for efficiencßy and increased productivity. 
   
Speaking during a media parley, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Pearly Bleuwaters International, Victor Oshodin, said the firm has solutions that would build and shape businesses into profitable global enterprise.
   
Adding that the tech solutions are not meant to reduce the workforce, Oshodin said it would rather strengthen worker’s skill, and increase business profit margin. 
 
“We are here to give our own quota to ensure that businesses are done properly without too much manpower. The idea is to share information to people outside there that if they apply technological tools to their businesses, they will see the impact and it will positively affect the productivity of their organization,” Oshodin stated.
 
On the solutions the firm offers, Operations Director, Joseph Ogunleye, said the Bleu Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) solution, helps businesses have a central approach to data management.
   
“With it, you can collect, store, manage, and interpret data from various business units. Also, ERP is used to automate back-office tasks and streamline cross-departmental workflows.
 
“When optimised, the solution can drive efficiency, lower costs and increase profitability. The ERP software is has the electronic invoice, easy accounting, inventory and so on,” he added.Ogunleye noted that electronic invoicing (e-invoicing) could serve both small businesses and corporations, for daily bookkeeping and to reduce paper works.
   
“This solution will help to reduce paper used for documenting, storing transaction information and get rid of manual processes such as printing, mailing, documenting, storing and reconciling paper invoices,” he added.He added that there is the Bleu Intellect School Management System solution is for school administrator, instructors, students and parents to build an education community.Other product offerings include business expansion and advisory services, project handling, public relations/publicity, marketing, management and staff training and business solution tools. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .