A housewife in Bagudo local government area of Kebbi State has reportedly killed her new husband so that she could go back to her former lover. According to the police, the suspect, Auta Dogo Singe, conspired with one Garba Hassan and Sahabi Garba at Sabon Gari village, Illo district area of Bagudo, to kill her husband, Abdullahi Shaho, to remarry her former husband. While briefing journalists at the police command headquarters in Birnin Kebbi, the Commissioner of Police, Garba Muhammed Danjuma, said the woman’s ex-husband was one Idris Garba, a resident of Tugar Bature village. He said the housewife and the two men she conspired with have been arrested. Meanwhile, the Oyo State police command says it has arrested a self-acclaimed pastor who lures female victims to his hideout and rapes them after dispossessing them of their belongings. The suspect was one of the 29 suspects paraded by the command yesterday in Ibadan. Commissioner of Police in the state, Shina Olukolu, said information about the suspect got to the office of the State Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) in Oyo on August 15. Olukolu said the suspect specialised in luring unsuspecting female victims to his hideout at Awe town where he allegedly rapes them. According to the police chief, the suspect will then dispose the female victims of their belongings as well as engage in ”spiritual cleansing” for ritual purposes. He said some items including a cell phone were recovered from him. “One Infinix phone with which he took obscene pictures of his victims was recovered from him. He claimed to be the pastor of one Gospel Ministry Commission based in Bashi Quarters in Awe. His confessions led to the arrest of one of his accomplices, an alleged quack medical practitioner who performed an abortion on one of his victims,” Olukolu said. Also, the command paraded 10 suspected trailer hijackers, who diverted a Mack trailer loaded with 410 new Sumec generating sets in Akinyele area, along Ibadan-Oyo expressway. Olukolu said the suspects were caught with 560 gallons of 4-litre Conoil Engine lubricant, 410 generating sets and a Toyota Camry car, all worth over N40 million. The suspect, who was arrested in his hideout in Oyo Town by SARS officers, confessed that the truck loaded with goods heading to Port Harcourt was moved from Sagamu in Ogun and diverted at Oyo. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .