Falck Prime Atlantic (FPA), has trained workers of the Lagos State Waterways Authority (LASWA), on Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR). The gesture is part of the firm’s determination to ensure that more than 400 Nigerians benefitted from its free basic first aid and CPR training programme. Speaking at the event, FPA Marketing and Communication Manager, Ms Aderonke Adebayo, premised the training of LASWA staff on FPA’s target to train people in different vocations, adding that the training would equip the beneficiaries with safety measures, who are exposed to all kinds of emergency by virtue of their vocation. “Waterways’ is becoming popular these days as attention has begun to shift towards this branch of transportation. We thought of the need to empower them to overcome some of those challenges in their field and for them to save more lives. “Apparently, there is a need to equip FPA staff with quality safety measures which is all encompassing through such trainers like ours whose skills are of international standard. Beneficiaries were not just trained theoretically, but also given practical training,” she said. Adebayo reiterated the need for training that is aimed at obliterating ignorance during an emergency on the first steps to take, and which first aid to administer to not only workers in industries, but domestic workers. She described FPA as a training company that offers training in oil and gas without excluding construction companies among others. One of the beneficiaries of the training, Oluseyi David, said although this is not the first time they would be exposed to skills of that nature, added that the training would enhance their safety abilities. “Actually, our vocation requires a lot of training and as we appreciate our management giving us the privilege to benefit from this, we also look forward to training in other areas such as swimming among others,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .