Kogi State Governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello. Photo/Twitter/LugardHouse Gov Thanks Delegates, Seeks Aspirants’ Support
Speaker of Kogi State House of Assembly, Matthew Kolawole, has hailed the emergence of Governor Yahaya Bello as the flag-bearer of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the November ballot in the state. Kolawole spoke in Lokoja via a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Femi Olugbemi. He described Bello’s victory as well-deserved, adding that his “monumental contributions in repositioning the party in the state in the last four years” earned him the ticket. The speaker appealed to the electorate to continue to have faith in the APC-led administration in the state and national levels. Also, an APC chieftain in the state, Dr. Tom Ohikere, said Bello’s victory in the primary represented the collective will of the delegates, stakeholders and the leadership of the party to re-elect him. In a statement, Ohikere said the action of delegates was also a demonstration of the sustained trust for the APC by Kogi people. Meanwhile, Bello has expressed gratitude to the delegates for picking him as the party’s candidate for the November 16 governorship election. Bello in a statement yesterday in Lokoja, signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mohammed Onogu, commended the delegates for their conduct and maturity during the primary on Thursday at the Confluence Stadium, Lokoja. He promised not to betray the confidence reposed in him, calling for unity among party members to ensure that the party emerged victorious in the coming election. “Your votes demonstrated your esteemed confidence in my leadership. This show of faith is highly appreciated and shall serve as a boost to our collective aspirations of moving Kogi to the next level. “I am assuring you that I would do you proud by coasting home to victory for the party in the November 16 election,” he said in the statement. The governor lauded the democratic posture of all the aspirants and appealed to them to join hands with him to retain Kogi for APC in the November election. “I thank God Almighty for this victory. I want to appreciate the National Leader of our party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, for his advice. I want to express my appreciation to the National Chairman of our party, Mr Adams Oshiomhole and the National Working Committee for the quality of leadership they have provided. “My sincere appreciation goes to the Chairman of the Electoral Committee, His Excellency Badaru Abubakar and his members.
“In this contest, there is no winner, no vanquished. I, therefore, call on all aspirants, stakeholders and members of our party to come to work with me to ensure victory for our party on November 16,’’ Bello said. Bello emerged winner of the governorship primaries by polling 3,091 votes to beat nine other aspirants who contested against him. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .