Apple cider vinegar photo healthtrends.com Apple cider vinegar is a common ingredient in food dressings, flavourings, and preservatives. It is also becoming popular as a home remedy for a number of health issues. From research, vinegar is useful for issues such as obesity, heart diseases, cancer and bacterial infections. However, just like every other medications, the constant use of cider vinegar has some negative effects on health and these are below: Constant use of vinegar can cause tooth decay. Apple cider vinegar is acidic. Consuming too many acidic foods and beverages can weaken tooth enamel over time, potentially leading to tooth decay. The risk of tooth decay is highest when a person regularly consumes undiluted apple cider vinegar. When you dilute the vinegar or consume it as part of a meal, it reduces this risk. The acidity of vinegar can affect the skin if applied directly on it. There have been medical complaints about people experiencing serious burns that require medical treatment after using vinegar. Drinking undiluted apple cider vinegar can worsen symptoms in people with digestive problems, such as stomach ulcers or acid reflux because of the acidity present in it. Also, vinegar as a means of weight loss slows the rate at which food leaves the stomach, which can suppress the appetite by making a person feel fuller for longer. This can cause unwanted side effects that might affect the stomach health drastically. Cider vinegar can cause low potassium in the blood. This condition is called hypokalemia. This situation may cause many associated symptoms and ailments including weakness, nausea, cramps, frequent urination, low blood pressure, changes in heart rhythm, and paralysis. Before taking it at all, your doctor must be aware and must give the direction on how it must be used. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment. 