A notorious phone dealer, Yusuph Da-Silva, aged 28, who specializes in buying mobile phones from armed robbers, cultists and pickpockets operating in Ogun and Lagos states, has disclosed that he buys over 30 phones a week and made between N25,000 and N30,000 daily from transaction in stolen phones. After almost three months of relentless hunt, the suspect was last week Wednesday arrested by the Decoy Team of the Lagos State Rapid Response Squad (RRS) over a robbery incident in Ifako-Ijaiye, where mobile phones, laptops and other valuables were carted away at gun-point. The phone dealer, Da-Silva, popularly called Da-Gold in Computer Village, Ikeja, had been on the run after police began a crackdown on the robbery gangs supplying him phones. The suspect confessed to have maintained links with three armed robbery gangs who constantly supplied him with stolen phones and other valuables after their operations. The gangs: trio of Abiodun Tajudeen (a.k.a Shalori) Drey, and Moshood Akinwande (a.k.a Orobo); AY and his cohort; and Idaso and his boys, specialize in robbing people around Fagba, Iju-Ishaga, Oke-Aro and Ifako areas. Da-Silva sold the phones in Computer Village and shipped some to Kwara, Osun and Oyo states to make tracking difficult for security operatives. Sources disclosed the suspect reside in Fagba Railway Line. It was gathered that Da-Gold is dreaded in Fagba, thereby making it difficult for community members to co-operate with the police.He said: “I deal in smart phones. I have been a phone technician in Computer Village since 2012. When I realized that wasn’t yielding enough money, I developed links with network of boys on the streets that gave me steady supply of phones. I wipe or flash them before selling them. I don’t collect their SIMS. “They bring them to me daily. I get up to six or seven smart phones from them daily and I sell to my customers in Computer Village, which fetched me between N25,000 to N30,000 daily. I don’t bother to ask them about how they get the phones because they have told me they were gotten through ‘Stop and Search’, (meaning they robbed their owners to get them). I am not a robber. They would confirm to you. I bought the phones from them. I have never followed them to rob.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .