American actor and film producer, Samuel L. Jackson has traced his roots to Gabon. The Hollywood veteran found out his ancestry through Finding Your Roots, an American docu-series that uses traditional genealogical research and genetics to discover the family history of celebrities. Jackson traced his roots to the Bantu tribe in Gabon. The Bantu people are the speakers of Bantu languages, comprising several hundred indigenous ethnic groups in sub-Saharan Africa, spread over a vast area from Central Africa across the African Great Lakes to Southern Africa.   It was an honor and a gift to meet you @president_abo and @sylviabongo Thank you for the wonderful reception and for giving me such a warm welcome to Gabon! A post shared by  Samuel L Jackson (@samuelljackson) on Jul 29, 2019 at 12:54pm PDT  He recently made a trip to Gabon, where he met with the president, Ali Bongo Ondimba and his wife, Sylvia Bongo Ondimba. Jackson also met with the king of Benga. He said that his journey of life has become so clear with the meeting he had with the monarch. He took to his Instagram: “When you meet The King of The Benga, your ancestral tribe & he turns out to be your best friend Skeeter!!! When you’re on a journey of discovery & a life choice becomes clear!”   When you meet The King of The Benga, your ancestral tribe & he turns out to be your best friend Skeeter!!! When you’re on a journey of discovery & a life choice becomes clear! #homecoming #gabon #enslaveddocumentary A post shared by  Samuel L Jackson (@samuelljackson) on Jul 30, 2019 at 9:40am PDT  Jackson is ranked as the highest all-time box office star with over $6.9 billion total US box office gross, an average of $87.5 million per film. He is best known for his roles in blockbusters such as Django Unchained (2012), A Time To Kill (1996), Pulp Fiction (1994), The Hateful Eight (2015) and Unbreakable (2000). Some other well-known individuals that have traced their genealogical backgrounds (with the help of DNA analysis) back to Africa include Chris Rock (Cameroon), Whoopi Goldberg (Guinea-Bissau), Common (Cameroon), Chris Tucker (Cameroon, Angola), Oprah Winfrey (Liberia, Guinea).