 El-Zakzaky aboard a flight from Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja to India for medical treatment …yesterday.  Barely 24-hours of arriving India for medical treatment, El-Zakzaky said he did not trust the doctors assign to treat him. He said his supposed medical trip has been worse than times he had been in prison detention. “All what we have seen here, have shown us that there is no trust, they just brought us here for another detention,” El-Zakzaky said. However, Grace Gekpe, Permanent Secretary at the Ministry of Information and Culture, in a statement on Wednesday night said the allegations as “foul cry”. She said that the claims by the IMN leader was held in circumstances worse than he was in Nigeria should be disregarded. Gekpe said he had “requested that his passport be handed over to him” and also “refused to subject himself to preliminary medical checks.” “He demanded free movement and access to visitors of all kinds as well as requested to be allowed to check into a 5-Star Hotel instead of being admitted in the hospital,” Gekpe added. Gekpe said his requests were refused because “he came into the country for medicals and not as a tourist.” She said El-Zakzaky also requested to “nominate” doctors who would treat himself and his wife. Gekpe said this created “stalemate, which the Hospital insisted that he would not dictate to it on the choice of medical personnel to carry the required medical treatment.” The Nigerian Government in the statement commended the stand of the Indian Government and apologised to her, noting that El-Zakzaky’s prosecution would continue when he returns to the country. El-Zakzaky and his wife have been in the detention of the Nigeria government since 2015. They were given permission to travel to India for medical treatment by a Kaduna High Court. He faces an eight-count of culpable homicide, unlawful assembly and disturbance of public peace.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .