 Oto ‘Joe Boy’ Joseph  Since his victory over the Egyptian during GOtv Boxing Night 13 at Landmark Event Centre in Lagos, Oto Joseph has been the most sought after Nigerian boxer. A lot of challengers have come his way from outside the country, including two Ghanaian boxers, Success ‘Brave Warrior’ Tetteh, and Nathaniel Nukpe, but the Nigerian triumphed on both occasions. In one of his bouts at the Obafemi Awolowo Stadium in Ibadan on April 21, Joe Boy stole the show by recording a knock out against the ‘Brave Warrior’ from Ghana with 32 seconds left in round two of their ABU Lightweight challenge. The victory saw Joseph retaining his belt, but a drama occurred inside the ring soon after. Another rising star in Nigerian boxing, Rilwan ‘Real One’ Oladosu, walked into the ring to challenge Joseph for his belt. For organisers of the GOtv Boxing Night, FlyKite Promotions, about between Oto ‘Joe Boy’ Joseph and Rilwan ‘Real One’ Oladosu will be the talk of the town. The stage is now set for both boxers to show what they have in stock to lovers of the sport in Nigeria and Africa in GOtv Boxing Night 20, which will hold soon. Though, Oto ‘Joe Boy’ Joseph says he is fully ready to ‘teach’ Oladosu some bitter lessons when the fight comes up later in the year, adding he is not comfortable with what he described as failure by the promoters to uplift him from the African Boxing Union (ABU) lightweight category. Speaking with The Guardian yesterday, ‘Joe Boy,’ who hails from Akwa Ibom State said: “For two years now, I have been rated by WBC, but Nigeria has not done anything about it. For how long am I going to fight in the ABU lightweight category? If the promoters cannot move me up, they should give me the Commonwealth title. The Ghanaian boxer, who is holding the IBF title, is not up to me. “By now, I should have moved up from this stage of ABU lightweight category so that other boxers can come up. It is the failure on the part of the promoters to move me up that is leading to this ‘rubbish’ whereby Oladosu will openly challenge me to a fight. “I am 15-0 in rating, and Oladosu is not rated. So, who is he to challenge me to a fight? This is the case of an ant seeking to topple an elephant.  I am ready for him, and I am looking forward to that fight. I will disgrace Oladosu that day,” Joe Boy stated. In the last few months, Oladosu had openly challenged Joe Boy, declaring that he would dethrone him anytime they clash for the ABU title. Apart from the incident in Ibadan, the two boxers almost came to blows again at a recent press conference to announce GOtv Boxing Night 19 in Lagos. Oladosu jumped off his seat to meet Joe Boy and shouted loudly that he wanted his title. Joe Boy’s boxing career started at a very tender age.  He was barely five years old when he began the pugilist game in Lagos. He hails from a family of five, three boys and two girls. “At the beginning, three of us (boys) started training, but I was the only one who continued in boxing,” he revealed in a chat with The Guardian. “My two elder brothers, Jackson Joseph, and Kingsley Joseph have since left sports, but I am determined to make it to the highest level in boxing. My dream is to become a world champion because I have the potential to do so.” Joe Boy grew up at the Ikeja Military Cantonment near Maryland in Lagos. His father is a retired military officer. He recalled his early days into boxing: “Isaac Ekpo is my brother, and he actually thought me a lot in boxing. At the beginning, I would train early in the morning before going to school. That was how I grew up with boxing blood flowing in my vein,” Oto ‘Joe Boy’ Joseph stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .