NNPC • Raise concern over pipeline vandalism
Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Pipelines Professionals Association of Nigeria (PLAN), and Infrastructure Concession and Regulatory Commission (ICRC), are seeking collaboration that would guarantee the safety and security of Nigeria’s oil and gas infrastructure. Group Managing Director of NNPC, Mele Kyari, who hosted executive of PLAN in Abuja, yesterday, urged members to come up with appropriate technology to stem the current challenges associated with oil and gas pipelines vandalism. “For us, what is of concern is the safety and security of our existing infrastructure, beyond just laying and maintaining the pipelines, their security is an issue for us today, the Association needs to focus on that, and we can ensure greater efficiency. We count on you in that regard because about 70 per cent of pipelines in the country belong to NNPC,” Kyari was quoted a statement to journalists. He said the security and integrity of pipelines were a big challenge in the industry, adding that the Corporation is collaborating with the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), to optimise the participation of Nigerians in pipeline construction, and to get more value from them. Chairman of PLAN, Geoff Onuoha, was said to have assured that the Association will work with NNPC to actualise its set objectives. “You want this industry to work well; you have made it clear that you want the refineries to work. Pipelines are the critical arteries to the refineries, we want to let you know that we are willing to work with you,” Onuoha said. On his part, the Director-General and Chief Executive Officer, ICRC, Chidi Izuwa, stressed the need to infuse private capital in pipeline infrastructure, adding that his Commission is ready to collaborate with NNPC to drive investment in the pipeline sub-sector using the public private partnership (PPP) and concessions models.
“We are going to work closely as PLAN, as ICRC, with NNPC to achieve this very objective which is in tandem with the objective of this administration,”  Izuwa was quoted. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .