 Apostle Lawrence Achudume  That it may give seed to the sower, and bread to the eater. In Isaiah 55:10c However, we have taken a mentality, which is an error to a man’s seed. We must not be takers. A taker is someone who looks for an opportunity to take and never gives back. He thinks first about himself, his need and intentions, instead of others or God and His kingdom. The root cause of being a taker is an unredeemed human nature, driven by fear. It is the nature of selfishness. The taker’s mentality is a product of myself and not others, which produces wrong thinking. The unsaved being a taker appears normal for survival from death. If in life, all you do is to take and consume, you don’t know the glorious system of what God has made you a part of. You were made to live a life of elevated, far and beyond a base or an unending human nature, driven by fear. In Matthew 25:25, it was fear that made the man to bury his talent instead of multiplying it. And I was afraid, and went and hid thy talent in the earth: lo, there thou hast that is thine. Matthew 25:25 A receiver is not an earner. An earner thinks he must merit what he takes. He does not understand giving, which is why he doesn’t give and is prone to stealing, given the opportunity. When God made Adam, He did not make him a taker or an earner. He made him a receiver. A receiver is someone who gracefully accepts and embraces all that God has promised and given in response to God’s love and goodness. I must say a receiving and grateful heart always produces a generous soul. Your receiving from God should make you a generous giver. You can’t bring forth fruit until you first receive from God because He started it. You can imagine all at creation that David wondered at His magnificent nature in Psalm 8. If you have fear or struggle to give, it is because you have fear and struggles to receive. Anyone who understands giving will also understand receiving. Having an understanding of receiving from God will lift you above selfishness. Instead of thinking about yourself only, you will think about God, His Kingdom, and people: and that is where prosperity lies. Apostle Lawrence Achudume, Victory Life Bible Church
Km 9, Olabisi Onabanjo Way, Opp. OGTV, Ajebo, Abeokuta, Ogun State. 08072929295
victory2life@yahoo.com To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .