Cloud computing Layer3, an industry leader in cloud, scalable and secure networks, has announced its entry into the VMware Cloud Provider Program (VCPP) and the launch of Layer3Cloud built on the VMware Cloud Provider Platform. This platform is a public cloud service and is fully compatible with customers own VMware environments built on vSphere®, the leading virtualization platform for building cloud infrastructures. As a member of the VCPP program, Layer3Cloud provides its VMware IaaS Powered service as a set of cloud computing services across a common platform, using proven VMware technology that organizations already use in their existing data centers. The VCPP program provides global cloud services and the choice of local VMware VCPP partners in more than 100 countries globally. “Cloud services delivered by VCPP partners & leveraging the Cloud Provider Platform can provide the efficiency, agility, and reliability inherent in cloud computing,” said Dave Funnell, Senior Manager Cloud Providers VMware. “We look forward to supporting Layer3 further as it empowers organizations with a simple, flexible and rapid path to the cloud.” Customers that use Layer3Cloud have the ability to move workloads from their VMware vSphere-based virtualized or private cloud environment to the VMware Powered Cloud Provider Platform and back again. This allows customers to achieve flexibility and security, while enabling increased IT agility. Layer3 sought to build the VMware Cloud Provider Platform in order to improve its overall cloud computing capabilities, to add high availability and to provide more businesses with the opportunity to take advantage of VMwares unique hybrid cloud computing technology. As a VMware VCPP Service Provider, Layer3, through Layer3Cloud, can now provide users with enhanced responsiveness and agility, and enable reduced IT costs through greater performance, availability and scalability. “It is an honour to be a VMware Cloud Provider Partner,” said Niyi Osibeluwo, Layer3’s head of Cloud and Enterprise Business “Layer3’s partnership with VMware solidifies our position as a company that can provide the technology customers need to continue their digital transformation initiatives. Layer3Cloud is a purpose-built platform running out of multiple data centers in Nigeria and enables our customers do things that wouldn’t have been possible before now.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .