Executive Secretary, State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), Dr. Muhammad Goje (left); Yobe State governor, Mai Mala Buni; Senate President Ahmad Lawan; and Emir of Bade, Abubakar Umar Suleiman, during a visit to commiserate with flood victims in Bade Local Government Area yesterday. In the aftermath of the negative impact of torrential rainfall that has sacked most residents of 11 local government areas in Yobe State, the Senate President, Dr. Ahmed Lawan, and governor, Mai Mala Buni, yesterday commiserated with victims of flooding in Bade Local Government area and other parts of the state. The duo visited six local government areas to sympathise with the victims. During the visit, Lawan donated N10 million for the flood victims. He also promised to provide more support to flood victims in other LGAs. In speeches at Chumbusko village on the entrance to Tagali village, one of the worst affected areas in Bade, the governor expressed his sympathies to the flood victims, urging them to consider the disaster as a test from Almighty God “whom we must thank at every situation”. The governor directed the State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) executive secretary, Dr. Muhammad Goje, to ensure flod victims throughout the state are reached within 24 hours to provide them with the succour they need. The governor also assured the people of Tagali and surrounding villages that an asphalted road will be built in the area to make it accessible. Lawan, who represents Yobe North in the Senate, thanked Governor Buni for his prompt response to the flood disaster. He said the problem of siltation on the Kumadugu-Yobe River is one of the reasons that caused the flooding as water overflows easily during heavy rains, promising that he will liaise with the Federal Ministry of Water Resources and the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) to ensure that the dredging of the river, stopped at 50 per cent since July last year, is completed. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .