Lady twerking photo fitya.com Twerking involves squatting down low and popping your butt back and forward in a strangely hypnotic motion. Twerking strengthens muscles in just about every part of your body! Not only do you sculpt, tone and grow your butt, your thighs become super strong, your hip flexibility increases and more than anything, boosts your confidence ! You can burn up to 500 calories in 60 minutes of twerk. Basically, you’ll sculpt and and tone. Below are some reasons to keep twerking as an exercise: When you twerk, you are holding a squat for the better part of an hour. This tones the muscles of your legs and butt, makes them firm and this is healthy for your body as you are able to shed off unnecessary fats in this parts of the body. Confidence is contagious. Not only will twerking increase your confidence with your partner, but it could also spread into other aspects of your life. Also when you twerk , it improves the body structure, this can boost your self confidence and make your body curves more obvious. Also, when ladies twerk for their partners, it serves as a means of bonding and increases your confidence level with them. Just like dance, twerking can relief you of stress. When twerking, you tend to have fun at it, it helps forget situations that are stressing you out. Also, it improves balance, flexibility, and coordination. Twerking can serve as a foreplay which improves the sex life between couple. Twerking for your partner is as equally arousing for the giver as it is for the receiver. According to research, couple experience the same feelings during a private twerking show. According to research, twerking is also a workout for the brain and has even been shown to reduce the risk of dementia. According to Richard Powers, a dance professor at Stanford University, it requires more brain power than other “stricter” forms of dance because you are forced to make rapid decisions about how you’ll move. So, you can give twerking a thought because of its advantages.