Photo Credit: Youtube *Concoction that contains fermented cabbage, onions, garlic, fish sauce, spices, reverses hair loss
*Facial vitiligo treated in clinical trials with honeybee, onions juice, green oats, sunlight exposure Can a concoction made up of fermented cabbage, onions, garlic, fish sauce and spices help thicken existing hairs, reverse baldness by allowing new hairs grow within weeks? Can a formulation of onion and eucalyptus oil herbal shampoo for dry hair promotes hair growth and antimicrobial activity? Can facial vitiligo be successfully treated in clinical trial with honeybee, onion, green oats combined to sunlight exposure? Scientists have found that kimchi, known for helping maintain a healthy gut, could now be used to reverse hair loss. Kimchi, the Korean dish of fermented cabbage, onions, garlic, fish sauce and spices, is already popular with health-conscious consumers and known for its probiotic qualities. Vitiligo is a chronic, idiopathic, acquired pigmentary disorder, which is characterised by de-pigmented patches in skin and mucous membranes affecting about one-four per cent of the world population. Medical therapies include phototherapy radiation (narrowband UVB), photo-chemotherapy, topical corticosteroids, topical calcineurin inhibitors, vitamin D3 analogues, excimer laser, and surgical procedures. The onion (Allium cepa), also known as the bulb onion or common onion, is a vegetable that is the most widely cultivated species of the genus Allium. Its close relatives include the garlic, shallot, leek, chive and Chinese onion Allium cepa family Liliaceae has been reported to possess antimicrobial, antibacterial, better nourishment, nutrients and also used as hair scalper hair loss. In formulated shampoo, eucalyptus oil is used for its antifungal activity. Cabbage (Brassica oleracea), name from French, caboche meaning head, grows well in cool climates. It has been used in salads, vegetable. Meanwhile, research showed a kimchi drink sold in South Korea helps thicken existing hairs and grow new ones within weeks. Researchers at Dankook University near Seoul studied 23 men, some in the early stages of hair loss and others visibly thinning on top. They were told to have a kimchi drink before breakfast and at bedtime. After a month, the average number of hairs had risen from about 85 per square cm of scalp to 90, and then 92 after four months of drinking the liquid. The scientists said this was a significant increase that appeared to have reversed hair loss in most of the men. In a report on the findings, published in the World Journal of Men’s Health, the researchers said: “Current drugs can have adverse effects so their use is usually temporary. We found kimchi could promote hair growth and reverse baldness. It is a safer treatment strategy for patients.” Researchers have also demonstrated the hair growth-promoting activity of herbal hair gel containing cabbage (Brassica oleracea) extracts. The study was published in Research & Reviews: Journal of Pharmacology. Onion and eucalyptus oil herbal shampoo for dry hair
Meanwhile, another study published in the Journal of Drug Delivery and Therapeutics evaluated a formulation of onion hair nourishing shampoo. The researchers formulated onion and eucalyptus oil herbal shampoo for the dry hair. They found that the onion used in the formulation promotes hair growth and the eucalyptus oil promoted the antimicrobial activity for the preparation. Shampoo is the most basic cosmetic used for hair, containing antimicrobial agent and other ingredient commonly used. The main function of shampoo is to clean the hair properly and reduce the dandruff. The most common problem in people is related to the dry. “Hence research was carried out on dry hair remedy. The formulation was evaluated for various parameters. The formulation of F2 batch shows best result of evaluation parameters as compare to the F1 and F3. The Formulation F2 showed good efficacy. The optimized batch formulation of F2 showed good microbial activity. The advantage of the herbal shampoo is better nutrient and nourishment to hair follicles and to promote the hair growth and to overcome on dryness problem,” the researchers wrote. They concluded: “The main aim was to formulated hair nourishing shampoo, will improve and strengthen the hair by proper nourishment and other problems like dryness and dandruff. It was concluded that formulated shampoo of F2 batch is optimized having good hair nourishing property.” The eucalyptus oil is the collected from the market .In the formulation various ingredients are used coconut oil (moistening agent), castor oil (thinning agent), potassium hydroxide (disinfectant), glycerol (surfactant), borax (cleansing agent), acacia (emulsifying agent), Allium cepa extract (scalp reduce agent) eucalyptus oil (antifungal agent), sodium bicarbonate (cleansers), lemon juice (antidandruff agent), methyl paraben (preservative), perfume (fragrance), distilled water (aqoues medium). “In this formulation we checked the antimicrobial assay by the sabouraud agar or sabouraud dextrose agar or SDA. The acidic pH 5.6 of sabouraud agar inhibits bacterial growth.”
Successful treatment of facial vitiligo with honeybee, onion, and green oats combined to sun light exposure in clinical trial Another study published in the International Journal of Pharmaceutical and Clinical Research demonstrated in clinical trial that facial vitiligo could be successful treated with honey bee, onion and oat combined to sun light exposure. The researchers from the Department of Biology, Faculty of Sciences, University of August 20th 1955 Skikda, Algeria and the Pharmacology & Toxicology Laboratory, Institute of Veterinary Sciences, University of Constantine, Algeria evaluated the efficacy and safety of a natural formulation, completed by sun light exposure, in the management of localised vitiligo. A 34–year-old man was affected by facial localized vitiligo with no family history of this disease. After 17 months of treatment with conventional drugs with unsatisfactory results, the patient has adopted a new therapeutic protocol including topical application of a formulation of honeybee, onion (Allium cepa) juice and oat (Avena sativa) stem decoction. Also, a daily sun light exposure of 15-20mn was practiced. Results of the clinical trial showed a complete re-pigmentation of white patches was obtained in a period of 11months with no adverse effects. The prolactin value was 7.06 ng/ml and cortisol was 12.36 μg/dl with 17.14g/l of seric IgG, which reflect a stabilization of stress state of the patient. The researchers concluded: “The tested complementary therapy was safe and has successfully re-pigmented the different vitiligo lesions. “Further studies are needed to confirm this stimulation of melanocyte’s proliferative activity by the present formulation. It has been reported by that honey contains approximately 80 per cent carbohydrates (40 per cent fructose, 35 per cent glucose, and five per cent sucrose) and 20 per cent water. In addition, it contains more than 180 substances, including amino acids, vitamins, minerals, enzymes, organic acids and phenolic compounds. This natural complex has been shown to possess antimicrobial, antiviral, anti-parasitory, anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and anti-mutagenic and antitumor effects. Green oats contain mainly pectin and SiO2, esters with polyphenols and mono- or oligosaccharides. The chemical composition of the dry stems of Avena sativa is not documented for our knowledge. Traditionally, the oat was used as a remedy in different therapeutic areas: Sedative, external use (cutaneous disorders), nervous system, and endocrinology, gastrointestinal, respiratory and urinary tracts and also for general condition. Several studies have focused the evaluation of A. sativa pharmacological properties, among them topical anti-inflammatory activity. Aries et al. has reported that colloidal extract of A. sativa stimulated the production of the anti-inflammatory TGFβ1 by keratinocytes and inhibited the production of interleukins. In addition to this, Aries et al. have founded an inhibition by colloidal extract of A. sativa of Ca-ionophore A23187 on the liberation of arachidonic acid from phospholipids and the subsequent metabolism into prostaglandins and leukotriene. The expression of phospholipase and COX2 was tempered. In a study of Boisnic et al., treatment with oatmeal extract oligomer has decreased significantly skin inflammation with decrease of TNF-alpha. Avena flour preparation has inhibited the expression of Nitric oxide synthase, which appears when neuro-immunocutaneous system is destabilized during cutaneous inflammation. In experimental wound healing model, this Avena flour preparation has induced the expression of VEGF by keratinocytes and has increased keratinocytes migration and collagen fibre contraction. A study of Liu et al. has shown that oat avenanthramides, phenolic antioxidants present in oat, exhibit a high capacity to inhibit adhesive interaction between endothelial cells through inhibition of adhesion molecule expression and to inhibit pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines. The authors concluded that their data provide evidence for the anti-inflammatory potential and anti-atherogenic effects of oat avenanthramides antioxidants. Allium cepa has a long history of medicinal use. The sulphur- and non-sulphur-containing components have been isolated from bulbus of this plant; the organic sulphur compounds include the thiosulphinates, thiosulphonates, cepaenes, S-oxides, S, S-dioxides, monosulphides, disulphides, trisulphides, and zwiebelanes. European Medicines Agency (EMA) has published an assessment report about A. cepa bulbs, a lot of pharmacological properties of this plant were reviewed and discussed (anti-allergic / allergic, anti-inflammatory, antimicrobial, antifungal, antiprotozoal, anti-nematodicidal, anti-carcinogenic and anti-mutagenic, anti-hyperglycemic, anti-aggregatory, cardiovascular and lipid-lowering effects, neuro-protective and effects on skin. According to a study of Arunget al., the dried skin extract of this plant inhibited melanin formation in B16 melanoma cells in dose dependent manner. In contrast, the extract of the flesh of the onion did not lead to melanin inhibition. However, Kubo et al. reported an opposite result previously. According to these authors, quercetin of onion enhanced the total melanin content in B16 melanoma cells. A study of Khalifa and Al-Obaidi has shown a highly therapeutic effect of crude onion juice in the treatment of patchy alopecia areata by topical application. The researchers wrote: “In a study of Al Masaudi& AlBureikan, when testing the effects of the onion-honey mixture with different concentrations, the authors have found that the mixture had a very noticeable effect on all species of examined microbes. Their data has also shown that the tested mixture was significantly more effective comparing with onion or honey alone. In view of these literature reports, we can affirm that the present formulation is very rich in antioxidant components with anti-inflammatory activity. The inhibition of pro inflammatory cytokines and chemokines by some molecules as avenanthramides, and the total melanin enhancement by other components as quercetin were scientifically accepted. “Furthermore, the formulation is a good source of nutritional elements to nourish the damaged skin. In addition, the sun light role in the stimulation of melanogenesis process was well investigated. In a study published in 2003, three vitiligo cases were treated successfully (follow-up of six to nine months) with twice topical application of 0.1 per cent Tacrolimus ointment. These patients were allowed unprotected (no sunscreen) natural sunlight exposure at midday: five minutes in the summer and 10 minutes in fall, winter, and spring. “Finally, a synergic effect between the honey bee, A. cepa juice and A. sativa decoction is possible in term of melanogenesis stimulation. As a limitation for the current study, we mention that the evaluation of re-pigmentation process, during disease evolution, adopted non-quantitative visual examination and the interpretation of each natural product’s role remains difficult.” They concluded: “In summary, a facial localised vitiligo case was followed-up. After 17 month of conventional treatment with unsatisfactory results, a new therapeutic protocol was tested. A formulation of honeybee, Allium cepa juice and Avena sativa stem decoction was applied topically each evening. Al so, a daily sunlight exposure was practiced. A complete re-pigmentation had taken place during 11 months of remediation with any adverse effects. “Further studies are recommended with large number of patients to confirm the efficacy of this treatment protocol in the management of localised vitiligo.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .