 eCommerce.<br />Photo:  PIXABAY  According to data from the African Development Bank (AfDB), this group is expected to grow to about 40 per cent by 2060, which translates to over one billion people. This will spell a boom for e-commerce going forward.  McKinsey report predicted that online shopping could account for 10 per cent of aggregate retail sales. This works out to $75 billion a year of total retail spend. This figure is expected to shoot up in the coming years.
 
This is why the focus is shifting to Africa. E-commerce pundits are looking to Africa to deliver the next revolution in wealth creation through a burst of e-commerce activities. And Nigeria is tipped to lead the African e-commerce chart. Indeed, e-commerce is an area that Nigerians have only recently started exploring. As such, people are also gradually learning about the technicalities involved.
 
Instructively, Nigeria pioneered e-commerce in Africa through Buyright Africa Dotcom, a baby of digital entrepreneur, Leo Stan Ekeh. Buyright Africa was Africa’s genuine online outpost birthed to deliver online services to a continent-wide audience starting from Nigeria. By 2012 when Buyright Africa was founded, it was obvious it came ahead of its time. Poor infrastructure, poor debit (credit) card transaction culture and low internet penetration frustrated the vision of its founder, who is also the Chairman of Zinox Group.
  
But Ekeh bided his time. Already, he had sowed the seed and in no time, the idea was given life again by his son, Prince Nnamdi Ekeh, who founded Yudala, a truly composite online-offline e-commerce platform. Though short-lived, Buyright Africa is historically the forerunner of all modern-day e-commerce companies in Africa.  Experts have predicted that none of the foreign e-commerce players would sizzle the African market. Some have projected Konga to play a leading role in positioning e-commerce on the continent. They cite Konga’s indigenous ownership, a truly African company, its innovativeness, tradition of delivering only original products, prompt delivery culture, offline presence in every neighbourhood, strong capital base, seamless operational efficiency and sound backroom technical integrity as reasons why Konga has the clear capacity to dominate the continental market, which enjoys a forecast of $29 billion in revenues by 2022, according to research firm, Statistica.
 
Africa waits for Konga. But even Africa is not a good hunting ground for ICTpreneurs. This is the only continent in the world where the top 10 billionaires list is not dominated by digital entrepreneurs. Africa, especially Nigeria, is a difficult place to do business. In the words of telecoms expert, Kehinde Aluko, if the promoters of Konga can succeed in this difficult clime with other companies within the conglomerate, Africa is lucky to have a company owned and run by Africans leading the charge in the soon-to-explode e-commerce market.
  
Edward Heaton, an expert on African e-commerce placed Konga as the best-poised company to create the next Jeff Bezos out of the continent.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .