Police operatives under the Lagos State Police Command and military personnel Monday barricaded the National Stadium, Surulere to prevent entry of pro-Omoyele Sowore protesters. The Presidential candidate of African Action Congress (AAC) in the last general elections in Nigeria, Mr Omoyele Sowore, was on Saturday arrested by operatives of DSS at his Lagos home. Sowore had called for a mass protest at the National Stadium, Surulere, tagged: “RevolutionNow”. Police patrol vehicles, including that of the Rapid Respond Squad (RRS), numbering over 20, Armoured Personnel Carriers (APC), anti-riot operatives, Civil defence operatives and military joint Taskforce operatives  were stationed at the two main gates. The Guardian observed that as at 8.40am, few protesters were seen coming in and gathered under the stadium bridge without any banner or placards in their hands, but they wore orange coloured Berrets. It was further observed that  employees of National Stadium, Students of National Institute for Sports (NIS) and members of the public who came for  training routine at the stadium were locked out by security operatives. A source told newsmen to leave the area as the operative will tear-gas the protesters any moment. The Area Commander, Area C, ACP Tijani Fatai who was at the scene as at the time of this report, told newsmen that the police were on ground to stop any form of protest planned to hold at the stadium. Fatai said they were not there to provide security for protesters, while he advised the crowd gathering in front of the National Stadium gate to stay away to avoid being caught up in any rush if at all the protesters show up. The Deputy Commissioner of police, Operations in Lagos State command, DCP Mohammed Ali told reporters on  telephone that the protesters did not obtain permission for the protest. “Their planned protest is unlawful. They did not obtain permission for the protest. If they say they have the permission, let them show it. People are adviced to go about their normal businesses as the police assures them of safety. “Any one that forment trouble would be dealt with according to law, “ Ali said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .