Electricity State launches job portal, offers instant employment to 20 graduates
Vice President Yemi Osinbajo yesterday lamented that in spite of Federal Government’s efforts at improving power generation in the country, electricity distribution companies (DISCOs) have failed to deliver uninterrupted power supply due to infrastructure challenges. Osinbajo stated this at the commissioning of a new 2x60MVA 132/33KV substation and associated transmission lines in Abeokuta, Ogun State, constructed by the Niger Delta Power Holding Company (NDPHC) under the Nigerian Integrated Power Project (NIPP). The Vice President lamented that the distribution capacity of the 11 DISCOs in the country was as low as 4,000MW, leaving an excess of over 4,000MW of unused electricity wasting away. Osinbajo stressed the urgent need for recapitalisation of DISCOs to enable them to build more infrastructure facilities to accommodate the excess power generated for distribution. He, however, restated government’s commitment at ensuring adequate power supply to all parts of the country, saying: “Power supply is the lifeblood of any economy and we are committed to ensuring that power supply is adequate everywhere. “In the past few years, resolving the power supply problem has been Federal Government’s top priority, but so much still needs be done for us to get there. “Today, we have about 13,427MW of installed capacity and an available capacity of about 8,332MW. The distribution capacity in the 11 DISCOs is significantly low, covering around 4,000MW on the average with the pick of about 4,500MW.” Responding, Governor Dapo Abiodun commended the Federal Government for investing in the energy sector to ensure adequate power supply, adding that the project would improve electricity supply to Abeokuta, Ota and other parts of the state. Managing Director of NDPHC, Chiedu Ugbo, also lamented the massive load rejection of power generated by the DISCOs due to lack of capacity, saying the substations like the one commissioned might be stranded assets with the DISCOs’ inability to distribute more than their capacity. Meanwhile, hundreds of unemployed youths yesterday thronged the June 12 Cultural Centre, where the Ogun State Government launched a job portal. Government aims to use the Ogun Job Portal to connect unemployed youths with industries, firms and corporations that need their services. Osinbajo, who was a special guest at the occasion, pledged Federal Government’s support the initiative, as the state government offered instant employment to 20 unemployed graduates in its public service. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .