Biodun Fatoyinbo PHOTO: INSTAGRAM/BIODUN FATOYINBO NAPTIP raises alarm over increasing rape cases
Senior Pastor and founder of Commonwealth of Zion Assembly (COZA), Biodun Fatoyinbo, was yesterday detained and released at the Nigerian Police Force Headquarters in Abuja after he surrendered himself for questioning over rape allegations leveled against him by Mrs. Busola Dakolo. Busola, wife of Nigeria’s inspirational singer Timi Dakolo had accused Fatoyinbo of raping her several years ago, an allegation that had elicited an array of comments from Nigerians. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Fatoyinbo is being interrogated at Force Criminal Investigation Division (FCID) headquarters in Abuja by a team of four officers led by Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Adaku Uche Anya. Meanwhile, the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP) has urged parents to guard their wards in order not to fall victims of rape cases, which are on the increase in the country. Director General of NAPTIP, Julie Okah-Donli, stated this in Abuja yesterday while reacting to allegation of victims of human trafficking going through untold anguish in NAPTIP rehabilitation centre in Benin City, Edo State by Human Rights Watch. Okah-Donli explained that NAPTIP’s rehabilitation protocol clearly spells out the processes the exercise goes through, adding that most of the agency’s rehabilitation centres have between four and eight inmates with the Abuja centre as an exception. She noted that the Abuja centre has more victims due to rising cases of rape, especially in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). She also described the Human Rights Watch report as a mere figment of some people’s machination that leaves gaps such as when the interview was conducted, how they gained entrance into the facility and how many inmates were interviewed. “After going through the report, we can boldly say that the entire report is a mere figment of the imagination of the writers, as the narratives fall below the standards in the operations of our shelters and the standards for our victims’ support and assistance,” she stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .