Nigerian construction giant, Julius Berger Plc, has changed its design for the Lagos – Ibadan Expressway and plans to construct service lanes, bus stops and lay bays on the built-up areas along the express road. The new features, it was learned, are part of the new design approved by the Federal Government to nip in the bud traffic congestions on the stretch of the road, which is the busiest road in Africa. Apart from the service lanes, bus stops, and laybys, The Guardian learned that the interchange planned for Lotto area of the road was part of efforts to decongest the road. Before now, there have been concerns over lack of bus stops and lay bays on the finished section with residents and commuters fearing that it might not solve traffic bottleneck associated with the road. The project supervisor for Julius Berger Construction Plc, Solace Orlu, an engineer, confirmed the development. He told The Guardian that the additions were included in the new design for the road. Orlu, who is also the Traffic Coordinator for Julius Berger Plc, explained that there are going to be service lanes in the built-up areas, like Ibafo, Arepo, Mowe, Aseese, Magboro where commuters could alight from buses. He said: “ The projects have been redesigned. The ones completed are the main carriageways, vehicles are not supposed to park on these carriageways. “There will be additional lanes added to the expressway so that if you are going through that area, you drive on the service lane”, he said. Orlu stressed further that the road is now designed in such a way that motorists would not stop on the main carriageway, you but to keep driving to ensure a free flow of traffic. He explained that the bus stops and lay bays would be on both sides of the service lanes. On the proposed Interchange at Lotto, he promised that works would soon start, stressing that the project is being delayed due to the compensation issue. “ The Ministry of Power, Works and Housing are sorting that out with residents and relevant religious bodies that are protesting against the project. We are not involved in that, the ministry is working on them but works will soon start on the project”,  he added. According to him, it is a normal thing that when you are doing construction works, some houses will be affected but they are resolving the issues. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .