 Nigeria’s team are pictured after they won during the Women’s 4x100m Relay at the 12th edition of the “African Games” on August 28, 2019 in Rabat. (Photo by FADEL SENNA / AFP)  The Women national U-20 team, Falconets set the ball rolling with a hard-fought penalty shoot-out defeat of Cameroun in the female football event before the wrestling team set Nigeria’s camp ablaze with five gold medals out of the six finals they fought in. And then, Commonwealth champion, Ese Brume leapt to her first African Games title in the women long jump event.  Today their male counterparts, Flying Eagles will attempt to win their first gold medal since the country last won it in 1973.
 
The seven-time African champions edged a memorable encounter with Mali in the semi-finals, which went into extra time, penalty shoot-out and sudden death session before they could be separated.
 
Burkina Faso’s U20 side also had to endure the gruel of a penalty shoot-out to oust Senegal in the second semi-final, and today’s battle for gold will be no contest for weak bones.  Brume, who only last month leapt to a new 7.05m personal best to become the third Nigerian nay African woman to hit the magical 7 metres in the event was the hot favourite to win and she didn’t disappoint as she led with her very first jump of 6.68m, which could have given her the gold medal. The Nigerian however added one more centimetre with her final jump to win the title with 6.69m, the second-longest winning margin after Janice Joseph of South Africa’s 6.79m leap to win in 2007 in Algiers. In the women’s discus throw, Chioma Onyekwere won the gold with her 59.91m throw. Onyekwere came to the Games as African leader in the event following the 60.75m personal best she threw in June this year in Kutztown, Pennsylvania, U.S. The other two Nigerians in the event, Anumba Ashley Ifeoma (53.45m) and Princess Kara (49.85m) came fourth and fifth respectively.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .