 William Okogbue  Okogbue, a security operative deployed to Ecobank Wuse zone four found a bag containing $10,000, which was left behind by a bank customer on July 16, 2019. He handed over the money to the bank’s manager who later returned it to the surprised owner. To reward Okogbue’s sense of patriotism and encourage such trustworthy behaviour among Nigerians, his employer has offered him a permanent job position. At a ceremony held in his honour, which attracted the Chief Security Officer (CSO) of Ecobank, Goddey Ojameruaye; CSO Access Bank, Chuks Maha; and Provost of College of Security Management, Nigeria Security and Civil Defense Corp Abeokuta, Mrs. Awosusi Oluwasefunmi among others, the vice president, Hogan Guards Limited, Mrs. Clara Ibirogba, commended Okogbue for restoring the culture of honesty, which Nigeria has been known for, for time immemorial. Ibirogba, a past director in the Lagos State Ministry of Justice, observed that at a period of economic challenges in the country, Okogbue could have decided to abscond with the money, rather he choose a path of honour worthy of emulation by other officials of the security firm as well as all Nigerians. While presenting a plague and other gifts to the officer, he charged him not to relent in honest service especially protection of lives and property. The Chief Operating Officer of Hogan Guards, Mr. Chukwuemeka Pinda, disclosed that aside from the offer of permanent job, the firm would also sponsor him on special training to enhance his job competence while he would additionally be supported for further education. Okogbue recalling the incident said: “I saw the bag and I carried it to the toilet. I looked and asked myself, is this a temptation? But I summoned up courage, prayed to God and said to myself, am here to protect property and lives. When I opened it and discovered it was dollars, I decided I would hold the money until the owner comes for it. “People are saying on social media, ‘why you return this money’ but I said it is not mine. Mine would come one day, the only thing is to trust in God.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .