House of Representatives Suspected gunmen attack policeman, two others in Tarawa
The House of Representatives has said that it may reconsider the bill aimed at legalising the operations of the Vigilante Group of Nigeria (VGN). The House Deputy Speaker, Mr. Ahmed Idris Wase, who disclosed this when he met with the leadership of the VGN, said the leadership of the House would interface with the Clerk of the National Assembly to find out why the bill was not assented to by the President. Enjoining the group to use only legitimate means in the exercise of their responsibilities, appealed to the group to caution its members not to engage in extra-judicial efforts in dealing with members of the public. “My appeal to you is to continue to follow the path of the law until the group is recognised by the law. I am also part of you because I am also a grassroots person. “Everyone in Nigeria is aware that the number of policemen we have is inadequate, so we appreciate your efforts in supporting the police and complementing the military and civil defence corps,” he said. Navy Captain Umar Bakori (rtd), who spoke on behalf of the VGN, urged the leadership of the National Assembly to revisit the bill that seeks to give legal backing to the activities of the group in addressing insecurity in the country. In another development, a day after gunmen’s attack on a family of five in Takum Local Council of Taraba State, a policeman and a bus driver, as well as a conductor, have again been attacked by suspected gunmen in the said aforementioned council. The victims, who are now undergoing medical treatment in one of the hospitals located in the council, were said to have been attacked yesterday in Kofai Amadu Village along Takum-Wukari Road. Chairman of the council, Shiban Tikari, said three vehicles were attacked along the road close to Kpakufun where he was attack on August 8, 2019. Also, the state police command through the Public Relations Officer (PPRO), David Misal, said they were not yet aware of the attack but promised to get back to our correspondent as soon as the information gets to the command. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .