Governor of Kebbi, Abubakar Atiku Bagudu The Progressives Governors’ Forum has condemned the #RevolutionNow protests called by Global Coalition for Security and Democracy in parts of the country. The Forum’s Chairman, who is also Governor of Kebbi State, Atiku Bagudu, voiced their position while speaking with State House Correspondents in Abuja yesterday. According to him, democracy was the best form of government and that “any call for disorder in a democratic setting is condemnable.” He said: “Any call for disorder in a democratic setting is condemnable because the democracy as the saying goes is not the best form of government but it is the best that we have because it gives opportunity periodically for the electorate to exercise their mandate in affirming or rejecting leaders. “We have just come through a general election in March where Nigerians embraced the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari and he has been elected for a second term with a little more votes than they have in 2015. Also, state governors were elected in different states, a lot of them second termer and a number of them first termers and interestingly enough, we have seen all kinds of democratic outcomes which hitherto what we have thought differently, particularly in a democratic setting. “We have first termers defeating second termers and in the case of one state, the Supreme Court exercising their rights as the highest court in the land to determine what should be and it is respected by the government. “So, to celebrate the evolution of our democracy, we are progressing from one mandate to the other. In the last few years, Nigeria has faced economic downturn, which has been occasioned by changes in global economy.” He noted that there were sundry and better ways of channelling grievances rather than the calls for revolution. “We have institutions that have been created to express discontent but people take up the law into their hands rather than expressing it through the right channel,” he added. The governor, who expressed dismay over the development, also noted that the calls for revolution in Nigeria were instigated from outside Nigeria. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .