The women national cricket team are preparing for the reverse fixture of the bilateral matches against Rwanda. The Nigeria Cricket Federation (NCF) has chosen 10 players and placed one on standby for the women national team’s tour of Rwanda from September 22 to 30, 2019. The tour is the return leg of the bilateral series between Nigeria and Rwanda. According to the NCF, the players were selected after three weeks of intense camping in Lagos with 24 cricketers. “The players were put through their paces by the newly appointed coach Mr. Leonard Onome Oghenekevwe and also played a couple of trial matches. After two weeks, the players were pruned down to 19 with more games played and a final list of 14 players was announced. “The revelation over the last seven days in camp have exposed the depth of female talents in the country as four new players make the list for the first time. “Omoye Asika from Edo State, a left-handed bating all-rounder can be considered as the surprise package from the whole bunch. Salome Sunday from Akwa Ibom will be relishing the opportunity after a successful career at age grade cricket, most notably winning the gold medal at the National Youth Games in Ilorin 2017. “Kehinde Abdulquadri from Kwara State, arguably the most decorated young female player, finally joins her twin sister in the team and Esther Sandy, who also completes the quartet from Akwa Ibom state. “Long serving and experienced players like Samantha Agazuma and Agatha Obulor will lead the team as Captain and Vice-Captain respectively while Blessing Etim, Fyneface Fate and Mary Desmond among others have also been included in the squad,” the NCF said. The camp closed yesterday to reconvene next weekend. The players in the squad are Samantha Agazuma (captain), Agatha Obulor (vice captain), Blessing Etim, Mary Desmond, Rachael Samson, Taiwo Abdulquari, Salome Sunday, Kehinde Abdulquari, Shakirat Oyewole (WK), Esther Sandy, Blessing Frank, Favour Eseigbe, Omonye Asika and Fyneface Fate.
Sabbatina Izuaku is the player on standby. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .