 US President Donald Trump speaks alongside Vice President Mike Pence about the mass shootings from the Diplomatic Reception Room of the White House in Washington, DC, August 5, 2019. – US President Donald Trump described mass shootings in Texas and Ohio as a “crime against all of humanity” as he addressed the nation on Monday after the attacks that left in 29 people dead. “These barbaric slaughters are… an attack upon a nation, and a crime against all of humanity,” he said. (Photo by SAUL LOEB / AFP)  As flags flew at half-mast at the White House and across the country and the death toll edged up by two, Trump made an unusually direct condemnation of racists as he took on the role of consoler in chief. But as the country tried to digest weekend shootings that left 22 dead at a Walmart store in El Paso, Texas and another nine outside a bar in Dayton, Ohio, Trump offered little in the way of new ideas for a country awash with guns and painfully accustomed to mass shootings. “Our nation must condemn racism, bigotry, and white supremacy,” Trump said. He stressed that mental illness was the main culprit fueling mass shootings in America, as opposed to the ready availability of firearms or extremist thinking, as argued by gun control advocates. At the sites of America’s latest massacres — numbers 250 and 251 so far this year — people came to honor the dead. Read More: Trump to address nation after US shootings leave 29 dead Makeshift memorials with candles, flowers, heart-shaped balloons and posters with messages of condolence sprang up outside the Walmart in Texas and the Dayton bar. “You are loved,” read an inscription on a small yellow cardboard heart placed outside the Ned Peppers Bar. Outside the Walmart store that was attacked Saturday, people paused to pay their respects at the memorial. Balloons shaped like stars — Texas is the Lone Star State — fluttered in the morning breeze. One poster read: “A date never to forget: August 3, 2019.” In his brief address, Trump made no mention of two ideas he had tweeted hours earlier: tightening background checks for gun buyers and linking gun control reform to changes in immigration law. The president did say he supported “red flag” laws allowing authorities to confiscate weapons from people believed to present grave risks. Many people were grateful that even more were not killed in Ohio. In Texas, 25 people were wounded, and another 26 were hurt in Ohio, where the shooter was killed in roughly 30 seconds by police who were patrolling nearby. Two of those wounded in Texas died Monday.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .