 Executive Chairman, Lagos State Sports Commission, Dr. Kweku Tandoh (left), ITTF Executive Vice President, Dr. Alaa Meshref and Competition Manager, Alan Ivancin at the press conference heralding the 2019 ITTF Challenge Plus Nigeria Open in Lagos… on Tuesday.  “ Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu wants to continue to re-assure the ITTF through the Nigeria Table Tennis Federation (NTTF) of its support by providing the enabling ambience for this competition to continue to grow, just as it started seven years ago. “For Lagos State, there is quite a lot of benefits hosting this event. We’ve seen the dividends of its benefits. We are glad that we have been able to partner with the NTTF and ITTF to put together this event, which has now become a yearly international event in the ITTF calendar. ” “It has now become the biggest event in the whole of Africa, and our goal is to continue to make it bigger and bigger until it becomes the biggest event in the ITTF’s calendar worldwide,” Tandoh said. Meanwhile, ITTF’s Executive Vice President, Dr. Alaa Meshref, who expressed happiness to be in Lagos, Nigeria, said the ITTF was staging an experiment of the fifth edition of the Challenge Plus, which the Nigeria Open has been elevated to, due to the global acceptance of the tournament in Lagos by players around the world. “We need fans to be around us and we are happy to have a tournament in it’s fifth edition, still rolling, now changing from Challenge to Challenge Plus. We just concluded the Africa Cup, thanks to the NTTF for being able to hold the event,” he said, adding that the world body was happy with the level of support shown by the sponsors, especially the state government and also the fans, who trooped in to watch the championship. The NTTF President, Ishaku Tikon thanked the Federal Government, Lagos State and other sponsors for their unflinching assistance, adding that the increased number of participants from around the world shows the quality the championship has now become.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .