Participants of last year’s festival She Leads Africa has announced that the popular innovation and culture event, Slay Festival, will be returning to Lagos, Nigeria on September 28, 2019 at the Lekki Special Events Centre. Since launching in 2017, more than 4,000 women have come together to learn new skills, build their network and connect with their favourite brands at the fun and relaxed festival. This year’s edition will feature inspirational speakers, engaging brand activations, career and business mentorship, speed networking and shopping from exciting young entrepreneurs. The Festival will also feature unique and interactive experiences that cut across business, career, technology, arts, beauty, fashion, food, wellness, community and music. The main attractions to look out for include the Mainstages, where attendees will be able to learn directly from some of Africa’s leading innovators, leaders and creatives including Osas Ighodaro, Bukky Karibi-Whyte, Tosin Olaseinde and Steve Babaeko. At the Redesign Stage powered by Google Nigeria, attendees will be able to enjoy sessions on thriving in the Nigerian workforce, getting your business investment ready and finding your personal leadership style. Also, during the festival’s master classes, attendees will be able to join small group classes on the hottest topics in lifestyle and career such as becoming a beauty boss powered by Maybelline NY, wealth beyond your paycheck and communicating your value and acing your next interview. The festival’s marketplace has been curated with leading entrepreneurs from the She Leads Africa community ready to showcase and retail their products in diverse industries. Finally, the festival is all about making new connections, so the speed networking area is designed to make it easy for attendees to step out of their comfort zone and build their community. Google Nigeria has joined the event as a Lead Partner and host of the Redesign Stage to power discussions focused on the career and business needs for millennial African women and will also be hosting several Grow with Google Master classes and bring your favourite YouTube creators for a meet and greet. For more information, visit the festival’s website and join the Festival’s community on social media. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .