Saudi Arabia’s newly appointed head coach, Herve Renard (right) poses with an official during the unveiling ceremony. PHOTO: REUTERS Newly-appointed head coach, Hervé Renard has declared that a sense of unity will be key if Saudi Arabia were to have a successful future, reports golf today.ae. The Frenchman joined the Green Falcons ahead of their imminent Qatar 2022 FIFA World Cup and AFC Asian Cup China 2023 Asian qualifiers, which begins in early September. Renard, who became the first coach in history to win the Africa Cup of Nations title with two different nations when he led Zambia to glory in 2012 and succeeded again with Côte d’Ivoire three years later, was appointed following his resignation as Morocco national team head coach last month. “Qualifying for the FIFA World Cup in 2022 is one of the main targets that we will work to achieve,” said the 50-year-old who guided Morocco to last year’s World Cup in Russia. “We want to write history, but success will only happen if there is teamwork. Reaching the World Cup is a great experience, and I would like to repeat it again.
“
However, we have to recognise that this thing will not be easy and that we have to work together to achieve it.” With Saudi Arabia’s Asian qualifiers campaign set to begin against Yemen on Sept.10, Renard has revealed he will leave no stone unturned in order to achieve the success he wants – starting with this week’s AFC Champions League Round of 16 fixtures. “What is important for any coach is to adapt to the environment they find themselves in, so it is important for me to spend long periods of time in Saudi Arabia,” he said. “I will be in Riyadh for Monday’s AFC Champions League match between and will then return to Jeddah to attend Tuesday’s game between Al Ahli vs Al Hilal. “These matches will give me and my technical staff a chance to assess the players who can best help me during my role with the national team.” Saudi has been drawn in Group D along with Palestine.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .