Ndukwe The emergence of Ernest Ndukwe, telecom technocrat as the chairman of MTN Nigeria Plc, is a good match for his skills and experience; and fresh allure for the telecom giant. Ndukwe, the father of modern telecommunications in Nigeria, is a charismatic leader who puts a lot of hard work into everything he does, and refuses to give up or take a rest. A much sought after resource person both at home and abroad; Ndukwe’s work ethic is expected to rub off positively on MTN Nigeria. MTN operations in Nigeria have seen both the good and ugly sides of Nigeria. And to some, the telco is a cash cow. Ndukwe’s job at MTN may not be as envious considering the enormity of tasks ahead and mind-set of some Nigerians and government institutions about MTN. Luckily, he has earned the reputation for doing ordinary things in extraordinary manners. As a former executive vice chairman (EVC), Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC); Ndukwe preside over the building of an internationally respected institution. Under his tenure at the NCC, the ICT industry witnessed tremendous growth and transformation, leading to what has been generally referred to as the era of Nigeria’s Telecommunication Revolution. Ndukwe’s efforts have also been recognized by the International Telecommunications Union (ITU). The recognition with ITU Gold Medal Award to Ndukwe is “in recognition of his important contribution to global Information and communication technologies and to the work of ITU”. Fondly called Mr. Telecoms, he is an Electrical/Electronics Engineer and a graduate of University of Ife and an alumnus of Lagos Business School. A highly respected professional, and accomplished gentleman who has worked in private sector as chief executive of a notable telecoms firm; moved into government service at the helm of the industry regulatory agency as EVC of NCC and back to the private sector; and now chairman of MTN. Patrick Ajudua, president, New Dimension Shareholders Association, expressed optimism, that the new MTN Board headed by Dr. Ernest Ndukwe will ensure transparency, compliance with corporate governance, and value addition to the shareholders.” In a similar vein, Taiwo Oderinde, president Proactive Shareholders Association, urged the new board to shun any corporate governance lapses capable of dragging the image of the firm through the mud. He noted, “The new Chairman, Dr. Ndukwe, is a man with a wealth of experience and connections in the telecommunications sector. As a one-time head of NCC, I believe with the support of other members of the board, he will bring this to bear in his new responsibility. I congratulate him and he should not let the shareholders and other stakeholders down.” Nodding in agreement, Olusol Teniola, president, Association of Telecoms Companies of Nigeria (ATCON), said the appointment is healthy for the industry. Teniola said: “Mr Telecom has provided us with his wisdom and unbiased opinion as to the direction of the industry at large. MTN has acquired a statesman and a knowledgable practitioner to man their ship. We look forward to working with him and his board to continue to grow this industry to its fullest potential.” Ndukwe, who is no stranger to local and international honours, hold the national honour of the Order of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (OFR). He is a good endorsement for MTN. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .