Wife of singer Timi Dakolo and celebrity photographer Busola has accused the Nigeria police of forcing her to sign a letter countering her rape allegations against the senior pastor of Commonwealth of Zion Assembly Biodun Fatoyinbo. “One was holding a gun, and I noticed a second one holding a letter,” Dakolo said in an interview with the Guardian UK. “They told me they were from IG’s [the inspector general of police] office in Abuja and that I needed to sign this letter and acknowledge it.” Busola said the letter contained allegations of criminal conspiracy, falsehood, mischief and threat to life against herself and her husband Timi Dakolo. Bukola, in June, alleged that Fatoyinbo raped her twice in a week when she was still a teenager. She explained that Fatoyinbo, nicknamed ‘Gucci Pastor,’ raped her for the first time at her parent’s home and at another time in a secluded road path. The allegations prompted hundreds of protesters to march on COZA premises in Lagos and Abuja, demanding the resignation and prosecution of the pastor. Fatoyinbo, however, denied the allegations and threatened to sue his accusers. The pastor later took a leave of absence from the church days after the allegations and protest. While many have hailed Busola’s courage to speak out, some have also criticised her accounts of the alleged rape incidents. She, however, said, “Our culture doesn’t allow speaking of these sorts of things against anointed men of God.” “They’d rather hide it, and the party that is being victimised tends to live with that self-blame. The damage on the survivor is extremely terrible. The society, the church, keeps sweeping things under the carpet.” Fatoyinbo Sunday, August 4 returned to the pulpit, about a month after he stepped down. The sermon on his return was from the books of 1st Timothy 6:12; Mark 4:35-37 and 1st Corinthians 10:13 in the bible. Fatoyinbo said Christians would always face persecution, but God would ensure that they are victorious.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .