 Olusegun Obasanjo  Specifically, they ponder the roles the various arms of government – the executive, the judiciary and, indeed, the 9th National Assembly – ought to be playing in making the country function and be viable economically. To be sure, the recent call for probe is not unconnected with the ongoing face-off between President Buhari and former President Obasanjo. And while many commentators are not averse to the idea of tackling corruption or any appearance of the ill, if Nigeria must come out of its current economic doldrums, there have been superior arguments and that there are more urgent and critical national issues other than the purported probe to be attended to by the powers that-be.  Malaolu also disagreed that the probe would at this period cause distraction for the government, adding, “There are agencies in charge of that and if the House is ready to dabble into it not more than 20 legislators can be assigned to look into it and submit their report. Otherwise, agencies like EFCC or ICPC can handle it. Nigeria cannot rely on Obasanjo’s book titled: My Watch as concrete explanation for the disbursement of such huge amount.” However, Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA) decried what it called selective prosecution of opposition politicians by the ruling party. HURIWA’s National Coordinator, Emmanuel Onwubiko and the National Media Affairs Director, Zainab Yusuf described as unfathomable evil and discriminatory practice, which contradicts Section 42(1) of the 1999 Constitution, the decision of EFCC to act as the political hatchet machine of the ruling party.
 
According to the group, this is demonstrated by going all out against the brother-in-law and legal counsel of leading opposition candidate, Alhaji Atiku and the erstwhile Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Professor Maurice Iwu, who is perceived to be sympathetic to Atiku. HURIWA queried the transparency in the entire operations of EFCC during the last presidential poll when it only looked the way of opposition PDP but became deaf, dumb and blind when two bullion vans said to be heavily loaded with cash entered the Lagos home of the National leader of APC, Bola Tinubu, on the eve of the presidential election and was allegedly dispensed to would-be voters and thugs by APC.The group reminded President Buhari and EFCC that Section 42 of the Constitution forbids discriminatory application of the law or government policy based on politics or ethnicity or religion or belief system.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .