Members of Democracy Watch Africa during their protest in Lagos Monarch warns Nigerians against unpatriotism 
Democracy Watch Africa yesterday demanded the expulsion of Amnesty International from Nigeria for allegedly sponsoring the RevolutionNow protests. The group, which claims to consist of over 30 civil society organisations in West Africa, described the protest as a grave misdemeanour that must be viewed from the prism of treason against Nigeria. President of the group, Josephine Okpara, speaking during a rally at Freedom Park, Lagos, yesterday, frowned on the protest and called for caution to avoid polity overheat. “Democracy Watch Africa views such actions as despicable, ill-timed, mischievous and orchestration of some external forces who have some collaborators in Nigeria like the Amnesty International whose actions in recent times have indicated that their mission is to cause disaffection and mutual suspicion between the government and the people. “We view such actions as despicable, ill-timed, mischievous and orchestration of some external forces who have some collaborators in Nigeria like the Amnesty International whose actions in recent times have indicated that their mission in Nigeria is to cause disaffection and mutual suspicion between the government and the people. “In the light of the fact that the calls for a revolution in Nigeria is the handiwork of the enemies of Nigeria, the Democracy Watch Africa wishes to bring to the attention of Nigerians that the real protest should be against the expulsion of Amnesty International from Nigeria, whose presence in Nigeria has caused more harm than good through their nefarious activities. The Democracy Watch Africa sees no other time than now to defend the unity of Nigeria and protect Nigeria from the hawks and cankerworms hell-bent on seeing to the demise of those values that define and unite us as a people and as a nation. However, the Oluwo of Iwoland, Dr. Abdulrasheed Akanbi, has warned revolutionary agitators to respect the constitution and be sensitive to moves that could cause unrest in the country. Oba Akanbi said corrective protest was not alien to any democracy, but bashed the call by the opposition to invite mayhem on the nation through unmerited revolution. The monarch stated that the call was not timely, considering the fragility of the security system. He advised agitators to device constructive means of criticising government and leaders and not outright condemnation that could invite public unrest. Expressing disappointment that a candidate in the last general election could immediately call for revolution instead of contributing to move the country forward, he said: “The call for revolution at this fragile moment is not patriotic. “I appeal to the Nigerian youth, especially the jobless ones, to respect the law, be patriotic and complement leaders’ efforts at achieving a new Nigeria of our dream. Good governance is a gradual process. If what you wish is not what is obtainable, you can wait at the poll, not revolution that could consume the nation,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .