 OPC  Adams, who is the Aaare Onakananfo of Yoruba Land, stated this yesterday during the 25th-anniversary ceremony of OPC in Lagos. Although he did not give the details of how OPC will enter into politics, he said the group’s strategy would be kept a secret for now. He, however, seems to be relying on the strength of over six million members of the organisation to gain an inroad into the legislature at the states and federal levels. He said those agitating for restructuring could not continue to take the backstage in politics, adding: “If we participate in politics, we will be in a position to influence what happens in government at all levels. Time for ‘siddon look’ is over.” He also said the OPC has metamorphosed from the previous outlook of largely illiterate members who are regarded as backbenchers. “About 30 per cent of members of the National Coordinating Council (NCC) are graduates. Over 96 per cent of OPC members is graduates. So, the future looks great. And we will explore it to the fullest,” he stated. Meanwhile, the Yoruba Youth Socio-cultural Association (YYSA) Worldwide has decried the closure of Seme and other borders in the country. In a statement issued by its National Secretary, Olawale Ajao, the group noted that the Federal Government’s closure of the Nigeria-Benin border was unwisely done as it would not do southwest states any good rather than cripple the region’s economy. “Economically, the Seme border contributes infinitely to the socio-economic development of Yoruba land. The Benin Republic is not just a neighboring country, but a backyard or second home for the fact that the settlers are from the South West. “The negative impact of rice smuggling on the regional economy is minute when compared to the amount generate monthly on other commodities coming in and out of the border. “There are other methods or strategies that could be adopted to curtail rice smuggling rather than closing the border. “As such, the step taken by the Federal Government would lead to gross economic downturn if not reversed. Some businesses had already been frustrated while many people are stranded,” the group stated. It, therefore, urged the President Buhari government to reopen the borders without further delay. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .