Family of one the police officers, who were murdered by soldiers of the 93 Battalion in Taraba State, has demanded justice over the gruesome murder of their son, Inspector Mark Edaile. The immediate elderly brother of the slain officer, Andrew Edaile, who disclosed this at a press conference in Abuja on Monday, also called for an independent enquiry by local and international bodies to unravel the death of the officer who has served the nation for 16years. He warned that if the Nigerian government fails to carry out a thorough investigation to bring the perpetrators to justice, the family would resolve that the murder of the late police officer was an act of conspiracy. “We come before all well-meaning Nigerians and the international community at large to voice out our displeasure over the gruesome murder and inglorious killing of our brother who went on official duty for his beloved country that he has served for over 16years,” Andrew Edaile said. “We vehemently speak against the perpetrators of this heinous act by the Nigerian Army and we demand a very thorough investigation by national, international community and as well independent body so that justice will be truly served. Edaile, who was flanked by the wife of the victim, Olubunmi Edaile and other members of his family blamed the army for the death of the inspector. “The same Army that is charged with protecting the citizens of the country happens to be the perpetrators at the helm of this heinous and barbaric act. “Our question is, who are these soldiers working for? Whose side are they on? And whose payroll are these military personnel on? This and many more questions we demand answers to. We also demand to know the kidnapper was released by the army. He noted that the action has called to question the integrity of the law of Nigeria while adding that it also causes grief to the families of the late police officer. Edaile explained that the family have been shattered since the news of the murder of their late brother broke. “Nothing should be swept under the carpet and we demand justice, we also want the perpetrators to be brought to book. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .