The driver of a truck in the early hours of yesterday lost control and rammed into a building at Ijaye in Abeokuta, Ogun State, killing a nine-year-old boy and injuring five occupants of the building. The accident was said to have been caused by over-speeding and loss of control by the truck marked LND-754 XV. The driver took to his heels immediately after the accident. Spokesperson, Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps (TRACE), Mr. Babatunde Akinbiyi, who confirmed the incident, said the accident occurred at about 3:46a.m. on Ijaye-Iyana Mortuary axis in Abeokuta. He explained that there were eight occupants in the building, comprising of one female adult, three female children, two male children and two male adults, when the incident happened. “I learnt the truck was coming from the Iyana-Mortuary axis in-bound Itoku when it suddenly lost control due to over-speeding, crossed the culvert and rammed into the shops and the house behind it. The little child who lost his life in the accident was aged nine and he has been taken to Ijaiye General Hospital mortuary, while the injured persons were taken to the General Hospital, Ijaye, Abeokuta, for treatment.” Meanwhile, the Ogun State command of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) said yesterday that one person died in an accident involving two vehicles at Mowe on the Lagos-Ibadan highway. The Sector Commander, Mr. Clement Oladele, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Ota, near Abeokuta that the accident happened at 5:03a.m. Oladele explained that a Volkswagen car with registration number EGB 608 XA lost control, due to excessive speeding around Redemption Camp main gate at Mowe and rammed into a bus with registration number LSD 933 XQ. He said three persons, two males and a female were involved in the accident and that one of the males died on the spot. “The body of the victim has been deposited at the mortuary of Fakoya Hospital in Sagamu, Ogun State, while the two others sustained no injuries,’’ he said. Oladele further advised motorists to desist from over-speeding that could lead to loss of lives and property. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .