Bauchi Assembly Bauchi Assembly of Youths Political Actors (BAYOPA) has threatened to initiate recall process against 17 members of the House of Assembly for rescinding their peace pact following the crisis in the house. Central coordinator of the group, Hashim Pali, told newsmen on Sunday that the youth group would mobilise the constituencies of the 17 aggrieved members to institute a recall process, if they fail to rejoin their colleagues in the next seven days. The group said it issued the ultimatum to ensure peace among the 31 members of the assembly for the state’s development. “Seventeen lawmakers under the All Progressives Congress (APC), after a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari and party leaders last week, rescinded the inauguration they participated in at the House of Assembly few days before. “We condemn in the strongest possible terms the unfortunate, unreasonable anti-people decision by some members of the house led by Kawuwa Damina in renouncing the truce they had some weeks ago, which resulted in their inauguration. “These two-faced people, who were guests to the president last week, went and presented a rather defeatist, self-serving and democratically-dangerous position to him as far as the interest of Bauchi is concerned. “Bauchi State, as well as its development, is the issue of concern to our people; hence it is a greater interest that must prevail. It is against this background that we are serving a seven-day warning to them to rescind their latest decision on the issue or we shall mobilise our people to proceed with a recall process against them,” BAYOPA said. Pali further claimed that the progress of the state was slowed down because of the lingering crisis in the assembly. “Their actions are slowing the pace of development of our dear state. We hope that these members will heed our warning and do the right thing, else we will be forced to recall them,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .