 Martins Oloja<br />  Yes, so many Nigerians have wondered why neither President Umaru Yar’Adua nor President Muhammadu Buhari ever thought of paying special attention to even the National Hospital in Abuja where they could have been treated. It was a big shame that we returned President Yar’Adua home from a Saudi hospital and a few weeks after, he died in office in 2010. There have been reports that the Royalty in Saudi used to come to the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan when it was one of the best four in the Commonwealth – when there was a country!
 
President Buhari who has been travelling to the United Kingdom for medical treatment and examination has never been quoted as suggesting a restructuring of even the State House Clinic, Abuja where he could be treated. Wife of the President, Hajia Aisha Buhari once cried out about the parlous state of the State House Clinic. President Buhari doesn’t have it. We can only ask him what he can’t give us. But why can’t Lagos, or Rivers or Delta State government, for instance, take a step of faith and build one well-equipped hospital where even the president, other governors, and citizens can be examined? We, the people know these states can afford this.
After all, when Governor Idris Wada was in December, 2012, injured in an accident as governor of Kogi State, his brother who was then a senior physician incidentally at the National Hospital, (himself a proprietor of hospitals) identified a well-equipped (private) Cedarcrest Hospital, where the governor was treated, instead of evacuation to India or U.K. The point is that when we establish a well-equipped hospital in any corner of the country, there won’t be any dispute: the Nigerian Medical Association and other medical experts will know.
 
So, it is not only the president who should answer our questions on why we don’t have any good hospitals in Nigeria where El Zakzaky could have been treated. The cleric hails from Kogi state. When the governor, Yahaya Bello had a minor injury the other day in an accident, he was rushed to the ill-equipped National Hospital in Abuja. Zakzaky’s operational headquarters in Zaria in Kaduna state. It is thus shameful that the ABUTH can’t treat him. It is unacceptable that all the military institutions in and around Zaria can’t boast of hospitals that can examine Zakzaky who used to be Zaria resident. This is what I think the Kaduna State’s resourceful governor, Malam Nasir El-Rufai should reflect on this week. It is through this kind of emblem of shame and suffering we can begin to address our critical needs.
 
So, my specific objective this week is to enjoin all of us citizens to step aside and look at our environment and reflect on questions we can ask our local leaders who have been largely irresponsible, wasteful and negligent. We should begin the reflection with our local primary and secondary schools that produced us. What happened to the dedicated teacher and even headmaster and principal who used to be our guardian angels? We should begin to find time and courage to ask our local government councillors and chairmen why they are not even clearing bushes around us, not to talk of maintaining drainages and school premises. We should begin to ask our governors why they don’t care about schools, healthcare and inner-city and village roads that lead to farms anymore. We should ask governors, for instance in Yorubaland whether Buhari’s aloofness is responsible for why after 20 years of unbroken democracy, there are still no good roads from Lagos to Abeokuta, Abeokuta to Ibadan, Ibadan to Oshogbo and even Akure to Ado-Ekiti. We should also ask our governors in the East and South-South whether imminent Ruga Project is the only reason the link roads in the five Eastern States are in such bad shapes I saw two weeks ago. Should we continue to blame Abuja for why the road from Calabar from Uyo is still dreadful after 20 years of democracy? Why can’t a south southerner drive on good roads owned by NDDC from Port Harcourt to Uyo or Aba?
 
*Let’s speak more truth to under-reported powers in the states next week. We should continue the conversation next week, please.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .