Former governor of Lagos State Akinwunmi Ambode Friday denied being involved in the N9.9bn fraud said to have been discovered by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). “The former Governor was not and will never be involved in any unauthorized use of government property and resources,” Ambode’s media aide Habib Aruna said in a statement. Aruna said the investigated accounts were opened for administrative purpose of Lagos State Government and not for the former Ambode’s personal transactions. A federal high court in Lagos Monday ordered the freezing of three bank accounts over an alleged fraud of N9.9 billion fraud. The court judge, Chuka Obiozor, ordered the suspension of the bank accounts following an ex parte application by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). The accounts are domiciled in First City Monument Bank (FCMB), Access Bank, and Zenith Bank with numbers 5617984012, 0060949275 and 1011691254 respectively. The accounts were alleged to be operated by Ambode who left office in May. The EFCC said the N9.9 billion was paid into the FCMB account from Lagos State Government’s account. The FCMB was operated by Adewale Adesanya, the permanent secretary in the Office of the Chief of Staff to the former governor. But Aruna said the “former governor said no account of his contained N9.9bn let alone being frozen by the EFCC.” He said the accounts in question that were frozen by the Federal High Court belong to the Lagos State Government and not Ambode or any individual. He stated that the fraud allegations against the former governor were misleading and incorrect. Aruna opined that Ambode “served Lagos State well with utmost dedication and integrity, his record is very clear and his mind joyful for the opportunity to have served the State diligently.” “We strongly believe that after four demanding years as Chief Executive of Lagos State, Mr Ambode is entitled to some deserved rest with his family and loved ones without the unwarranted attacks on his well-earned reputation.” He urged Nigerians to support the All Progressives Congress (APC) both at the State and national levels to deliver the dividends of democracy to Lagosians and Nigerians respectively. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .