 Ugochukwu Jay Chikezie Founder/CEO, Tremendoc Limited, (left), Brand Ambassador, Osas Ighodaro, Chief Business Director, Charlotte Odunlade-Akeju and Chief Financial Officer, Adetokunbo Adetona at the Tremendoc Doctor-On-Demand app Launch and brand ambassador unveil…  The delectable actress and mother who couldn’t hold back tears at the unveiling conference in Lagos, revealed to the audience that years ago, she lost both her sister and unborn child to malaria, but firmly believes early and proper diagnosis would have prevented the tragic and life-changing incident. “This is why I am so passionate about what Tremendoc stands for. After dealing with the traumatic experience of losing my sister, I knew that something had to change in Nigeria’s healthcare system. That’s why I’m very much on board with the release of the Tremendoc app. It could have helped my sister and it can help so many lives across Nigeria,” she said. In Nigeria today, millions of citizens are constantly on the move and oftentimes are too busy to sit in waiting rooms for hours to consult with a medical doctor or healthcare specialist. Affordability and accessibility to quality healthcare is also a huge challenge in Nigeria as well.  Earlier this year, the World Health Organization (WHO) released statistics showing that there are just four medical doctors to every 10,000 Nigerians. With an estimation of four doctors for every 10,000 inhabitants in the country, more than 40,000 of 75,000 registered medical doctors in Nigeria are practicing outside the country while 70 percent of the medical doctors in the country are either unemployed or have taken up side-jobs to survive. Needless to say, the doctor to patient ratio is alarmingly low in the country and one can imagine how crowded hospitals can be across the country especially in the more urbanised areas. In response to this, the founder of Tremendoc, Jay Chikezie, who is also the Co-founder of Nairabox, launched an application that has the capacity to revolutionise the healthcare sector of Nigeria. The new app is designed to provide a convenient and affordable avenue for users to access licensed doctors one-on-one at any time of the day via audio call, video call or text. Not only is a healthier life just an app away, but doctors also have a convenient avenue to consult. In other words, Tremendoc provides quality healthcare literally at your fingertips. Speaking with The Guardian at the launch, Chikieze said: “Tremendoc is the best solution to Nigeria’s healthcare issue. It is fast,  affordable and super convenient, as convenient as chatting to friends on social media. I felt it was important to create and promote this app to improve the landscape of the country’s health sector and create a better and healthier Nigeria.” To use the app, simply download the application, first-time users have the opportunity for a free 30-day trial that gives them access to licensed doctors at any time of the day, through video call, audio call or chat. After the trial is over, they can decide to carry on with the service with a subscription fee of N1000 monthly.