Burna Boy and Stefflon Don at the 2019 BET Awards, Photo. Gistmania The allegations about Burna Boy cheating on his British rapper girlfriend, Stefflon Don with the controversial Ghanaian actress Shyngle, broke the internet. In a video released on an online gossip site, Instablog, Shyngle and Burna were seen reminiscing on the old times while another showed them having a time out in an entertainment centre. This new video sparked rumours on the cheating allegation. While some believe Burna was never serious about the relationship, some believe the whole situation was for publicity stunt. However, the dice rolled more towards actress Shyngle, as opinions from people suggests that she has always thrived to be in the spotlight. Stefflon Don on 27th August debunked the rumoured break up, however, the question so many people have been asking is how the videos were leaked, for what reasons and to what end? These questions were answered by many as an attempt to “chase clout”.   While it has been said that there can be no fire without flames, there have been cases of publicity stunts pulled by celebrities in order to gain traffic from the people. Recall that on August 24, 2015, the former Five Star Music act ,Skiibii, reportedly slumped and died. Skiibii’s manager at the time, Soso Soberekon, confirmed the singer’s death to the media; he even posted a mournful picture of a candle on Instagram, which he later deleted. Skibii was 22 at the time of his “purported death.” After some hours, it was discovered that the artist is as fit as fiddle and only did all that just to promote his song, “sampu” which he released some days earlier. The question that comes to mind is if the publicity stunts are necessary and if there are ways to stay in the limelight without resorting to the use of mind games, lies and pathetic stories. Below are some lessons to learn from the celebrities publicity stunts: Be focused There is a lot to gain from neglecting all forms of distractions and focusing on your goals. Unfortunately, many people easily get distracted and will do anything to go back to how things were before they took their eyes off the vision. When you are not focused, you will go to any length to ensure you stay in limelight. Talent We are in a generation where acts make more sense and gain wider approval than talents. However, this does not negate the effectiveness and importance of building and working on your talents. If you are not working on developing yourself, you will end up looking for other means to stay relevant. Work hard Hard work is important, so is working smart. Work hard and work harder till you achieve your goals. People will always remember you when you pull some publicity stunts, however, you do not want them to remember you for inconsequential things when people are being remembered for doing exploits. No shortcut No matter how cunning you are, there are no shortcuts to fame. Fame takes hard-work, dedication and time, when you decide to cut corners, you end up pulling yourself backwards. It is better you dedicate your time to your success and “blow” in real-time rather that be in people’s face for all the wrong reasons.