Politician, chattered estate surveyor and valuer, as well as IT and management expert, Dr. Wole Aboderin, is an APC member from Oyo State, South West Nigeria, who was the party’s Director for Women and Youth Presidential campaign team in the last election. He is a staunch believer in President Mohammadu Buhari right from his CPC days where he was equally the party’s Director for Youth Mobilization. Even now when some Nigerians have lost faith in the president’s ability to proffer solutions to Nigeria’s security and other challenge, Aboderin still describes himself a ‘Buharist’. He explains to MATHIAS OKWE and JOHN AKUBO why his faith in Buhari is unshaken. How long have you been in politics? 
Since 2007 in the days of All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP); I was actually brought into ANPP by my desire for something new and refreshing. My cousins then were also contesting under ANPP for the senate to represent Oyo State, and because of my love for President Muhammadu Buhari, we actually campaigned and worked for his victory in 2007. In 2011 they were looking for somebody from South West that would lead the youth mobilization for the presidential campaign. So, I got recommended by one Mrs. Joy Nunieh who had been working for Buhari since 2003. That was how I became director of youths for Buhari/Bakare campaign organization in 2011. From CPC in 2014 we became APC; then I was the coordinator for election monitoring and evaluation in 2015, and by 2019, I was made the Director for Women and Youths in the presidential campaign team of Buhari/Osinbajo. My belief in Buhari is what actually brought me into politics. I remember way back then my father used to express the hope to bring Buhari back as president. But I used to say as a former military leader, who was toppled, is it possible? I did not know that it was possible for him to come back as a civilian president until he was on the ballot in 2003 and 2007. That was when I actually started my campaign for him based on the inspiration by my father; so, that is my journey into politics. Looking back almost 10 years now, what is your impression about the man your father used to talk so much about, particularly his integrity? Are you disappointed or you are still passionate about him based on your father’s faith?
Yes, anything that comes out from my father is just like the president himself; he is really a genuine person. What I can boast of in my journey into politics is Buhari becoming president. If not that I’m close to these people I would be confused about what some people are saying out there. This man means so well for this country. Each time I have an opportunity to see him, just like the last time on June 12, after the June 12 parade, I went to greet the first lady and President Buhari and to congratulate them on the victory at the general election and on June 12 and the 20th anniversary of Nigeria’s democracy. It was the same thing he always talked about, how to move the country forward; he is so passionate about the country and I’m quite impressed and I know that very soon Nigeria will start experiencing the impact of his genuineness and passion for the country. Are you satisfied with the crop of people working with him?
Yes, I’m satisfied with anything Buhari, because people around him know what he stands for and what he is all about. So anybody that is around him that does not toe the same line, I don’t think Mr. President would tolerate such, because people know why he is in politics in his old age. It is born out of his passion for an enduring, positive change in the lives of Nigerians. He is supposed to be retired and resting as a great achiever; he has done a lot for himself, but as you can see, his never-ending passion is still waxing strong. Concerning the insecurity in the country, are you not worried?
I’m worried about the security situation around the world. If you tune to CNN, BBC and Aljezera, security issues are all over the world. I’m quite concerned and I want people to know that it is not a Buhari issue alone. They are trying their best; every Nigerian should stand up for this security matter and we should look for ways to encourage the government in the fight. Look at the issue of Boko Haram; we don’t hear about them anymore. We should be thankful for that. Most especially security was very bad in Abuja; the terrorist could access the United Nations’ building, but all that is now history. Abuja is far safer than before. Are you not worried that the president shunned youths in his appointments in preference to working with old people?
He does not abhor the youth; he believes in the younger generation, but I believe when the time comes he will know what to do. Time is running out. When are Nigerians going to see the good side of Buhari that they have been craving for, with insecurity manifesting in different forms, such as banditry, herders/farmers’ clashes, and kidnapping growing?
Politics brought about all these because while we were growing we did not hear about them. The insurgency we heard about then was Matasine which President Buhari as military head of state was able to silence and after that we did not hear anything insurgency. Boko Haram was a major issue; wherever all these other insurgencies are coming from we don’t know. That is why I said earlier that this fight has to be a collective responsibility, because if the country is at peace there would be a lot of investment inflow. Everybody will be happy and people will be able to go about their businesses without fear of any kind. Let me bring religion into this issue of collective effort. As a Christian I know that Jesus Christ came to the world for everybody, not just for Christians: ‘for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son.’ He did not even condemn the world; he left only one message which is ‘Love your neighbour as yourself.’ If you love your neighbor as yourself why would you hurt your neighbour? Islam is all about peace and love. We should be preaching more about peace and love. If I’m not close to these people I will have this concern that you just mentioned. This government works day and night; all the people that I know who are around him are equally passionate about this country. On the issue of appointment of ministers and so-called delay, slow and steady wins the race. It is better for him to take his time to do what is right. Don’t also forget that there is no vacuum anywhere, as the permanent secretaries are there doing their job. All I have to say is for Nigerians to exercise patience and support Buhari in anyway they can, and pray for him. If you pray for your nation you pray for yourself and family, you pray for the prosperity of the country. We should try and be more patient. By the time we start seeing the result, Nigerians would be happy with the fact that they voted Buhari a second time. I’m telling you because I know with Buhari Nigeria is at the threshold of greatness. What you are saying is that there is hope for Nigeria and for the youths in particular?
Yes, there is hope for Nigeria, for the youths. The last presidential campaign was the very first time women and youths were given a very significant recognition which the first lady actually chaired. That was her initiative, and the president supported it. If the president does not believe in women and youths he would not support it; that made women and youths’ campaign to be independent. You have been working for Buhari for the last decade. Are you satisfied that the reward system has not favoured you yet?
I’m satisfied that the man is still right there; he is still passionate and a man of integrity, justice and fairness. He is a man that I’m very proud of and I have worked for. If that is all I can get, that I was part of this man that made Nigeria a success story, that is more than enough for me. Anytime I want to see them I have the privilege and he is our father and the father always knows what the children want. I will love to contribute my own quota and he is a father-figure and he knows what to do at the appropriate time. In what area do you think you can make your contribution?
I’m a multi-tasking person; everywhere I go people bombard me with, ‘your father Buhari.’ They call me Buhari’s son. You know what, I’m quite happy with that. I have had my experience; I am into investment, consulting, and I’m into real estate for over 20 years. So, I know how to manage. I’m into management and all that comes with it. I actually started the Buhari Movement in Lagos; we were the agents of change in 2011. I organised the rally in Lagos just before the presidential election and it was a huge successful. Thank God it came through. Buhari is my role model; whatever he can do, I will always support him. I want Nigerians to be patient with Buhari. He is having sleepless nights over the issue of Nigeria. We should pray for our leaders; if we put the energy we expend in condemning our leaders into praying for them, in fact, Nigeria would have been where we expect it to be by now. Let us keep praying for him. We thank God he made the second term which some people thought he would not. My family actually started the Action Group with Obafemi Awolowo. My grandmother Jennet Alatede Aboderin was the financier of Awolowo’s Action Group. My father was actually Obafemi Awolowo’s classmate; they grew up together. My maternal grandfather, Chief Shonibare was Awolowo’s very close friend. So from both mother and father’s side we were actually the foundation of politics in Oyo and Ogun States. Maybe that was what gave me encouragement to be in politics.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .