Olurotimi John Badero is a Nigerian-American physician; Interventional cardiologist and Interventional nephrologist who has been recognised as the world’s first and only fully trained cardio-nephrologist (heart and kidney specialist). The seventh of nine children, he was born in Lagos, Nigeria to parents with a humble background. He had his education in Nigeria and after obtaining his medical degree from Obafemi Awolowo University. He worked at General Hospital Isolo in Lagos to fulfill his one-year service requirement with the National Youth Service Corps. After this, he relocated to the United States where he completed three years of internal medicine residency training at SUNY Downstate Medical Center.  He did his residency at the State University of New York at Downstate Medical centre and got his fellowship in Nephrology and Hypertension at Emory University School of Medicine. Badero returned to SUNY Downstate to complete a three-year fellowship training in cardiovascular medicine. Following this, he attended the Yale School of Medicine where he completed a fellowship in invasive & interventional cardiology and another in peripheral vascular intervention. Badero then returned to SUNY Downstate for a year of fellowship training in interventional nephrology and dialysis access intervention. Dr Badero is the Executive Director, Cardiac Renal & Vascular Associates. He is also the Medical Director of St. Joseph Hospice. He is on the global Advisory Board of the Therapeutics experts on Thrombosis and Atherosclerosis, Merck Pharmaceuticals U.S.A. In all, Dr Badero completed an unprecedented 10 years of continuous post- graduate medical training and he is currently board certified and a consultant in: He performed the first trans-radial cardiac catheterization and coronary angioplasty at CMMC Hospital Mississippi and has authored many peer-reviewed journals. For his outstanding work and medical contributions, he has been recognized in the US, UK, and Africa including: Dr Badero has authored many peer-reviewed journals and he combines his medical practice with being a church minister and assistant pastor at the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Vine Chapel in Mississippi. He is also an entrepreneur, educator and motivational speaker.