• Team arrives in Benin to inspect facilities
Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu yesterday assured the safety of participants and visitors coming to the state during the FIFA U-20 Women World Cup in 2020 if the country won the hosting right. The State, the governor guaranteed, would ensure improvement in the condition of all sporting facilities already inspected by FIFA to give participants a comfort and make their experience rewarding. Receiving members of the FIFA inspection team in his office yesterday, Sanwo-Olu assured the world football governing body that the state was ready to host the world. The FIFA officials were led by the president of Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Mr. Amaju Pinnick. Sanwo-Olu said, “Lagos is a whole lot of energy, with a lot of very resourceful, hospitable and dynamic people, who understand and appreciate the issues around hospitality. “It is a state with population that has a lot of diversity. We are very excited that FIFA is considering hosting one of its very important tournaments, U-20 Women World Cup, in Nigeria. By implication, Lagos is one of the host cities of this fiesta.” Also speaking on the bid, Pinnick described Lagos government as a ‘giant promoter’ of sports, while also acknowledging Governor Sanwo-Olu’s role in the mileage achieved by the Super Eagles in the just-concluded Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt. Hosting the U-20 Women World Cup in Lagos, the NFF boss said, would be the required boost to spur the Falconets to lifting the trophy next year. Pinnick said: “Hosting the competition is very good for Nigeria. Members of our women football teams have displayed level of discipline, maturity and patriotism. We believe we should accord them respect they deserve by ensuring that the tournament is successfully hosted. “For the first time in Africa, we are hosting an U-20 Women World Cup. But, Lagos State is not new to hosting tournament. During inspection, the FIFA team was able to understand Lagos is ever ready for this kind of event. We are happy the forthcoming tournament will be taking place in Lagos.” Later in the day, Pinnick and the FIFA five-man committee moved to Benin City, Edo State, where they will also inspect the facilities in the state. They were received by the Chairman of Edo Sports Commission, Godwin Dudu-Orumen, Commissioner for Youth, Damian Lawani and other top government officials. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .