Have you been having trouble sleeping lately and wondering what could be the possible reason? Look no further but pay careful attention to your diet as what you eat and drink contributes to whether you have a good night rest or battle insomnia all night long. According to NBC News, in a study, researchers tracked diet and sleep for a group of healthy adults over the course of five nights and found that indeed, food choices during the day did affect sleep. While many foods are healthful to sleep, other foods can actually undermine your nightly rest. Ranging from junk food, sugary foods, to large meals high in carbohydrates, these type of foods can interfere with the body’s process of winding down for sleep.  What Not To Eat Or Drink Before Bed Caffeine: Caffeine can stay in the body for up to six hours after it was consumed and it is noteworthy that the stimulant affects everyone’s bodies differently. If you find yourself having trouble sleeping, you may want to cut back on the caffeine but if not, then you don’t need to reduce your intake. Alcohol: Drinking alcohol before bedtime is not such a good idea because there’s research that shows it actually disturbs the quality of your sleep later in the night. You may argue that alcohol has the effect of knocking you out but your sleep cycle rebounds and your brain tends to then keep you in the lighter sleep stages. The result is that you wake up feeling less rested after a night of heavy drinking or drinking too much. Drink in moderation when it is close to your bedtime. High-sugar, high-carbohydrate, heavily processed foods: The same junk food that’s problematic for your waistline can also be troublesome to your sleep. Eating sugary foods throughout the day can cause pronounced changes to blood sugar, which can bring on feelings of fatigue that can alter your daily routine and your sleep patterns at night. Large meals high in carbohydrates can have a similar effect on blood sugar. Eating heavy meals close to bedtime interferes with the body’s process of winding down for sleep as being too full at bedtime can interfere with falling asleep, and sleep quality through the night can be disrupted as the body works to digest. Heavy spicy or fatty foods too close to slumber: Heavy foods that are spicy or fatty are tougher for the stomach to digest than lighter ones (like bananas or whole grains). And indigestion before bedtime makes it harder for your body to relax and drift off to slip. What To Eat or Drink Before Bedtime Having listed the types of foods and drinks to avoid before bedtime, these are things to take to aid your sleep process. Light foods: While you shouldn’t go to bed with a stuffed stomach, your stomach doesn’t need to be empty either. If you must eat before bed, a light snack like yogurt, a banana, or a small bowl of low-sugar cereal is a smart choice. Water: Staying dehydrated al through the day helps you sleep better at night because dehydration leads to feeling sluggish and tired, which can eventually disrupt sleep patterns. Drinking water throughout the day can help you maintain energy levels and avoid dehydration, setting you up for a good night’s sleep later. Other drinks like tea and juice can also help keep you hydrated. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.