Delta State government has reiterated its commitment to the completion of all road projects as scheduled. This came on the heel of complaints from across the state over the deplorable condition of the projects. Commissioner for Works, Chief James Augoye, disclosed this yesterday in Asaba while briefing journalists on the many challenges his ministry was facing. “The rains are here and we are facing complaints that civil works across the state have reduced drastically. “There are challenges on some of our roads, especially those that have not been constructed and those that are very old crying for rehabilitation and have become sources of worry to Deltans and others that ply the roads. With the rains, there are lots we cannot do, particularly earthworks in the swampy terrains,” he said. The commissioner also threw more light on the Asaba-Ase road project, which slow pace fuelled protests on Sunday by residents who alleged that the contractor, NCC, had abandoned the job.“We appeal to the community, especially the demonstrators, to bear with us as the contractor will mobilise fully to site as soon as the rains subside. We are aware of the protests at Asaba-Ase yesterday (Sunday) where they complained that the contractor ‘demobilised’ from site. The water table there has gone very high with the flood, so no construction can take place on the seven-kilometre road. They are still on site. We are in touch with what is on the ground,” he added. He allayed the fears of residents along the Anwai, Iyi-Abi, Amilimocha river, where the storm empties into, assuring them that government was planning to dredge the three rivers in the state capital to contain the volume of underground water. Augoye further said that the state had not given up on the failed federal roads in the state, even as it was yet to get refund from the Federal Government for most of the rehabilitations done over the years.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .