The senior pastor of the Commonwealth of Zion Assembly (COZA), Biodun Fatoyinbo honoured the Nigeria Police invitation for questioning over rape allegations made against him by a celebrity photographer Busola Dakolo. He is being probed at the Force Criminal Investigation Department, Garki Area 10, Abuja. This comes less than a week after Fatoyinbo refused to appear before the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) panel investigating the rape allegations made against him by Dakolo. “Unfortunately, several attempts to meet Pastor Biodun of COZA church, who is one of the important parties in this matter, failed despite efforts by the fact-finding committee to get his attention or appearance,” PFN spokesman Emma Isong said at a press conference in Lagos. “The PFN, unfortunately, wishes to announce its inability to come into a conclusion on this matter.” Busola, in June, alleged that Fatoyinbo raped her twice in a week when she was still a teenager. She explained that Fatoyinbo, nicknamed ‘Gucci Pastor,’ raped her for the first time at her parent’s home and at another time in a secluded road path. Fatoyinbo, however, denied the allegations and threatened to sue his accusers. The rape allegation prompted hundreds of protesters to march on COZA premises in Lagos and Abuja, demanding the resignation and prosecution of the pastor. PFN and the Nigeria police have since commenced separate investigations into the matter. While the outcome of the Nigeria police investigation is yet to be known, the PFN said it has fulfilled scriptural, public and moral expectations as a reasonable and legal organisation on the matter. The PFN spokesman, however, appreciated Busola Dakolo whom he said was present during different interrogations with her husband Timi Dakolo to state her side of the story. He did not disclose the result of any findings the PFN made on the matter. Days after Busola’s rape allegation against Fatoyinbo, another former member of COZA accused the pastor of raping her. Fatoyinbo said he was proceeding on “leave of absence” more than 48 hours after the allegations were made. The allegations prompted a number of protests on social media from women abused or raped by people in authority in religious circles, which some have called Nigeria’s #MeToo moment. Barely a month after going on leave, Fatoyinbo on Sunday, August 4 returned to the pulpit. The sermon on his return was from the books of 1st Timothy 6:12; Mark 4:35-37 and 1st Corinthians 10:13 in the Bible. Fatoyinbo said Christians would always face persecution but God would ensure that they are victorious. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .