 President Muhammadu Buahri (middle); with All Progressives Congress (APC) National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole (sixth left); Vice President Yemi Osinbajo; Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari; Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, and members of the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) during a meeting at the State House, Abuja…yesterday. 		     PHOTO: PHILIP OJISUA  The President, who stated this when he received members of the NWC at the State House in Abuja, pledged to uphold party supremacy and commended National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole and other members for their sacrifices and success in the last general elections.His words: “It is obvious that our success was more paramount in our hearts. You could have deployed the times and energy you deployed for the party for your own personal use. “I respect the sacrifices you are making; you can only derive satisfaction if you are working for your country and all our people because, materially, nobody can pay you for the sacrifices.” President Buhari also appealed to NWC members to abide by the party’s constitution, adding: “It is not enough to just criticise certain party decisions without first understanding what the constitution says.”He then assured the NWC that competent members with requisite experience would be invited to contribute their quota to nation building, as heads and chairmen of boards of government agencies and departments. Speaking, Oshiomhole congratulated the President on the electoral victory, noting that the NWC was meeting with him for the first time after the elections.He said while it was regrettable that the party lost some states, the greatest victory for the APC was in Kwara and Gombe states. “In Kwara, we uprooted the ruling dynasty and inaugurated loyal and committed APC men at the helm of affairs,” he said.Commending his leadership style, Oshiomhole thanked President Buhari for his support that ensured the party’s success in holding principal officers of the Ninth National Assembly. He also presented the party’s financial report on the 2019 general elections and what it spent in each state from monies received from the party’s treasury.  “Normally, people think that party funds are not to be accounted for, but we are obliged to account for every kobo that was spent, who spent what and the results we got,” he said. Oshiomhole, however, declined to give specific details of the financial report, especially with regard to party spending during the polls.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .