It has truly been an amazing week filled with lots of surprises. This week, we affirmed that people are actively trying to make an impact. With some speaking against hate and boundaries and others claiming new grounds in their physical and
spiritual lives, here is a rundown of the week: Davido. | Photo Instagram Popular artiste, Davido, has carved a niche for himself by delivering hits for seven consistent years. One would like to think that with his level of success, he would have the massive support of his listeners but according to the singer, all he receives his hate. This he made known while thanking his fans for the love shown on his recent single with Chris Brown, Blow My Mind. “It’s just hate, from morning to night… Because of what? My papa get money, na my fault? I work
hard, I deliver it, I take care of my people….” Cassper Nyovest. | Photo Twitter Award-winning South African rapper, Cassper Nyovest, envies Nigerians at the moment and rightly so. According to the “Sweet and Short” rapper, he likes the way Nigerian artists promote and celebrate one another as well as the Nigerian culture around the world while admitting that he wished he was from our dear country. He tweeted, “I wish I was from Nigeria. Won’t even lie. I wish I was from Nigeria too…Nigeria has all the genres we have but they push Afrobeats.”
Hey Cassper, if you ever wanna do something about that, we here bro, we gatchu,’ you know what we saying. Nicki Minaj and Kenneth Petty.| Photo Urban Islandz 36-year old female rapper, Nicki Minaj has reportedly taken a marriage license in Los Angeles with her 40-year-old boyfriend, Kenneth Petty. According to a TMZ report, eyewitnesses say that they saw the lovebirds at the marriage license bureau window, and they got the paperwork they need to tie the knot. It is further gathered that they tried to keep a low profile as Minaj was wearing a baseball cap over her knee-length bright red hair as they waited in line at a window that read, “Marriage licenses and ceremony Appts. ONLY.” Petty reportedly paid for the license before they left. Meghan Markle. | Photo Hello Magazine The Duchess of Sussex, Meghan Markle, has announced her intention to launch her clothing line later this year. The Duchess who recently guest-edited the September issue of Vogue magazine made this announcement in the same magazine. She is set to partner with Misha Nonoo, fashion brand Jigsaw, British retail stores, Marks & Spencer and John Lewis, to bring the new range of women’s workwear to royal fans. There will however be a twist to her fashion line as the profits made from the collection will go to Smart Works, a charity that helps unemployed and vulnerable women get back into the workplace. Kanye West. | Photo Billboard Kanye West is born again, Nicki Minaj has revealed. In a recent broadcast of her Queen Radio show, she said that because there is a general belief that other artistes don’t believe in God, they avoid talking about it. Then when you find people because I just was with Kanye, and he told me he’s a born-again Christian now. Like my first instinct was, ‘I’m so proud of you, because I could see there’s a peace that he has now that just surpasses everything. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .