 Harriet Thompson, has said improved Internet access and services are crucial to developing Nigeria’s technology space  Danbatta, represented by the Director, Research and Development, Ephraim Nwokenneya, said fresh investments will play a major role in fostering new development, noting that already, through effective regulatory efforts, the Commission has been able to deepen connectivity in the country. He disclosed that as at June 2019, Internet connections in the country have reached over 122 million, with over 63.5 million of this figure connected to broadband networks of 3G and 4G, which represents a 33.31 per cent broadband penetration.
  
Danbatta said the task before NCC now, which is in line with digitisation, is to more than double the penetration level in the next five years. “As we increase collaboration and partnership with necessary stakeholders toward making a new broadband target that may be set by the Federal Government a reality.” “Last year, the country was able to attain and surpass its initial 30 per cent broadband penetration target set in its National Broadband Plan (NBP) 2013-2018 by December, 2018,” he added.
 
While collaboration is key, Danbatta noted that the race for infrastructure deployment is a global concern.
  
According to him, if the recent happenings across the globe including in the United States is checked, “we’ll find out that infrastructure is receiving attention at the highest level of government in developed economies and this is because any nation that wants to develop must do this in a digitally-enabled framework.
 
“In the same token and in order for Nigeria not to end up becoming an irrelevant economy, if we don’t address the issue of digital infrastructure, the NCC, in its wisdom, has put in place the INFRACO framework in order to address the problem of accessibility, availability and affordability, as well as engender innovations through granting of research grants to the academia. Hence, robust telecoms/broadband infrastructure is fundamental baseline to engender innovations that will help to drive economic growth in Nigeria,” he added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .