 Seyi Makinde, yesterday received a boost as the Olubadan high chiefs paid the 91-year-old monarch homage at his Popoyemoja, Ibadan palace  Among the nine high chiefs, six were present at the palace. Those absent included the Osi Olubadan, Senator Rashidi Ladoja; Asipa Balogun, Lateef Gbadamosi Adebimpe; and Ekerin Olubadan, Biodun Kola Daisi. They were said to have earlier sent their apologies as they were said to be out of town. Before now, the estranged high chiefs had vowed to retain their beaded crowns as kings, claiming that their promotion from high chiefs to beaded crown-wearing Obas was backed by relevant laws, while the Olubadan insisted that they must be stripped of their crowns before they can be recognized as members of the Olubadan Advisory Council. But the visit of the high chiefs to the monarch yesterday was an indication that the high chiefs have finally bowed to the wishes of the Olubadan, resolving the two-year-old royal tussle. At about 1:30 p.m. on Monday, the high chiefs led by Otun Olubadan, Lekan Balogun, came to pay homage to the Olubadan in the company of Balogun Owolabi Olakulehin; Osi Balogun Tajudeen Ajibola; Asipa Olubadan Eddy Oyewole; Ekarun Olubadan Amidu Ajibade and Ekarun Balogun Kola Adegbola. Decked in flowing gowns, beads and various caps to match, the high chiefs arrived at the palace amid drumbeats, songs, and trumpet sound. They joined the Iyalode of Ibadanland, High Chief Theresa Oyekanmi; Agbaakin Olubadan, Senior Chief Lekan Alabi; Chief Adeyemi Soladoye-led members of the CCII, several Mogajis, and Baale from all the 11 Local Government Councils in Ibadanland to celebrate the joy of the day with the Olubadan, who clocked 91. Speaking on behalf of his colleagues, the Ekarun Olubadan, Amidu Ajibade, congratulated the monarch on his 91st birthday, saying Olubadan had made history for himself, his family and Ibadanland. He seized the opportunity to let the Olubadan know that Ibadan is one under the leadership of Kabiyesi and they all are his high chiefs and are proud to be associated with him. The Balogun of Ibadanland, High Chief Owolabi Olakulehin then led the chiefs on Balogun line in the traditional knock on the door, requesting Kabiyesi to kindly approve the promotion of the chiefs in the Balogun line. After consenting, he paid, on behalf of the chiefs, the mandatory sum of N200,000 to Olubadan. They then resolved to begin to participate actively in the Olubadan-in-Councils deliberations. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .