 Some unidentified gunmen yesterday shot dead a police inspector, simply identified as Lasisi. Gunmen Photo:AFP  It was gathered that the deceased alongside his colleagues attached to Isua-Ise Divisional Police Station, was at a police checkpoint when the suspected hoodlums suddenly appeared from the bush and opened fire on the policemen. A source said the other policemen at the checkpoint were lucky as they escaped from the scene. The source said: “The policemen have always been on that road for the past year to check the activities of herdsmen and bandits in the area. But it was unfortunate that some hoodlums just came from nowhere and opened fire on them. While Lasisi was killed, other policemen at the checkpoint ran for their lives.” The source also disclosed that after killing the policeman, the hoodlums went away with his gun. A police source further revealed that the body of the deceased has been evacuated from the scene and deposited at the morgue of the Ipe Akoko General Hospital, while a detachment of policemen has moved into the bush to trail the hoodlums. When contacted, the State Police Public Relations Officer, Mr. Femi Joseph, confirmed the incident and said the men of the command were already on the trail of the hoodlums, while an investigation into the matter had begun. He said, “Our men are already combing the bush and I want to assure you that they would be arrested very soon.” Meanwhile, gunmen numbering about four attacked the Chief Accountant in the office of the Head of Service of Niger State and stole over N9.5 million. The situation paralysed economic activities in Minna for over two hours as commuters and motorists looked for ways of escape. The Chief Accountant, Idris Abdullahi, was said to be returning from one of the commercial banks in Minna at about 10:30 a.m. where he had gone to withdraw the money. It was learned that the money was for the overhead cost in the office of Head of Service. An eyewitness told newsmen that the gunmen blocked the Chief Accountant’s car as he approached the gate of the secretariat, shot into the air and snatched the money from his car before zooming off. The eyewitness also said the gunmen drove towards the Customs office along the Western bye-pass where the vehicle appeared to have developed a fault, forcing them to abandon it. They reportedly hijacked another vehicle and drove off to an unknown destination. Efforts to get the Office of the Head of Service to comment on the matter proved abortive but the Police Public Relations Officer, Mohammad Abubakar, when contacted, confirmed the incident, saying the operatives are on the trail of the armed robbers. Abubakar said, “We have dispatched the information to all our units in the Command to be on alert. We are on top of the situation.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .