Those suffering from chronic back pain can attest to the fact that it is a royal pain in the back (pun intended). It literally alters your life as it keeps you away from doing a lot of physical activities and even keeps you from spending time with the people you love, or even from getting a good night’s sleep. The good news is that there are actually plenty of foods that reduce back pain. Countless foods, especially vegetables and fruit, are full of anti-inflammatory properties, which work to hit the sweet spot and reduce swelling. This, in turn, will help reduce your back pain, or any chronic pain you’re having, for that matter. In this article, we have listed 10 foods in your kitchen or refrigerator that you never knew until now that they could help with your back pain. Already known to possess several health benefits, it has anti-inflammatory capabilities and the fact that it’s filled with antioxidants, one of which is something called oleocanthal. Oleocanthal is a chemical that’s basically been shown to work like ibuprofen for pain in the body so drizzle olive oil onto your salad or your frying pan before you cook something. Dairy products like milk, cheese and yogurt are all good sources of calcium which helps you to maintain and strengthen your bone mass. Ginger contains extremely powerful anti-inflammatories called gingerols which have been proven to significantly reduce pain in arthritic individuals. Turmeric contains curcumin which is an incredibly powerful antioxidant and anti-inflammatory agent. Coffee contains anti-inflammatories such as polyphenols that work to reduce pain. Already, we discussed the health benefits of drinking hot coffee. Backache. Rear view of young muscular African man touching his hip while standing against grey background Salmon is packed with the omega 3 fatty acid, a healthy fat known to help those living with chronic pain. This tasty fish also has calcitonin, which has been shown to reduce inflammation in joints. Almonds, pecans, walnuts, and brazil nuts are all excellent nut options if you’re looking for solid sources of anti-inflammatories. Although scientists don’t fully understand how it works, thyme can essentially reduce your perception of pain, acting as a natural painkiller. Red grapes contain an anti-inflammatory called resveratrol, a compound also found in other berries and peanuts (but apparently not in green grapes), which has been found to fight pain. Generally, vegetables are good for your back because they have anti-inflammatory properties but the greener the vegetable, the better for you and your back. Consuming a kale salad is an easy way to throw some green and relief into your life. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment Read More: 7 Amazing Health Benefits Of Olive Oil