Outspoken Nigerian comedian, I Go Dye in an open letter to the president of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari has asked for the release of a former presidential aspirant and the publisher of Sahara Reporters, Omoyele Sowore. Sowore who was the candidate of the African Action Congress in the last presidential election in Nigerian was arrested by men suspected to operatives of the Department of State Services (DSS).  Sowore who is the convener of #RevolutionNow protests was arrested in his residence in the early hours of Saturday, his associate said in a statement. President Muhammadu Buhari In the letter, I Go Dye reminded President Buhari of when he overthrew the government of Shehu Shagari (Nigeria’s first democratically elected president) in 1983 and in light of this, he reasoned that Sowore who was arrested following his plans to lead a revolution protest against the Buhari-led administration scheduled for August 5th should be released. I Go Dye says his open letter is on behalf of the voiceless who are clamouring for a better Nigeria. The comedian reminded Buhari’s action of taking part in the coup that overthrew Shagari was as a result of Buhari not being happy with the state of things in Nigeria at the time. Using examples of how Nigeria has also degenerated over the years, I Go Dye went on to express the plight and suffering of the people who cry every day for freedom from poverty, insecurity, unemployment, poor health conditions, ethnic and religious intolerance, freedom from police harassment of our youths on a daily basis just to mention a few. I Go Dye The entertainer then went on to remind the president that Nigeria belongs to all and the objectivity of Sowore’s actions need to be considered. Concluding his letter, he asked the president to treat Sowore like a son writing: “Please kindly treat Sowore like one of your sons, whose ultimate goals is to have a better society, I am human and I feel the pains of millions of Nigerians who sleep every day without a meal, blinded by a hopeless situation. Please, sir. on behalf of the voiceless listen to the voice of reason #freesowore and make Nigeria better than you met it.” Just yesterday, The Guardian reported that the Federal High Court, Abuja, refused to grant the motion filed by Sowore challenging his detention for 45 days by the State Security Service (SSS). Sowore. Photo: YOUTUBE 