 In the Bible lies the book of Revelation  Christianity affirms that Jesus is the only way to God (John 14:6; Acts 4:12). This view seems intolerant in light of our pluralistic, relativistic age. Yet, given the evidence presented above, one must deal with Jesus Christ, either as the Lord God whom He claimed to be or as an imposter who somehow was deceived as to His own identity. However, one point is unequivocally clear—denying the truth does not in any way detract from the eternal truth. The choice is yours to make! Question: Some religions say Jesus is a prophet but not God. Is this true? Answer: “For Moses truly said to the fathers, ‘The LORD your God will raise up for you a Prophet like me from your brethren. Him you shall hear in all things, whatever He says to you.” (Acts 3:22) A prophet. Moses’ prediction in Deut 18:18-19 that He “will raise them up a Prophet from among their brethren, like unto thee” was a prophecy concerning Jesus Christ. In what way was Jesus like Moses? (1) Moses was anointed by the Spirit (Num 11:17); the Spirit of the Lord was on Jesus to preach the gospel (Luke 4:18-19). (2) God used Moses to initiate the old covenant; Jesus brought in the new covenant. (3) Moses led Israel out of Egypt to Sinai and established the covenant relationship with God; Christ redeemed His people from sin and satanic bondage and established a new, living relationship with God whereby His people might enter the very presence of God. (4) Moses in the OT laws referred to the sacrifice of a lamb to bring redemption; Christ Himself became the Lamb of God to give salvation to all who accept Him. (5) Moses faithfully pointed to the law and the obligation of God’s people to obey its commands in order to receive God’s blessing; Christ pointed to Himself and the Holy Spirit as God’s way of fulfilling His will and receiving God’s blessing and eternal life.
Jesus Came To Redeem Us From The Consequences Of The Fall (1) Introduction
God’s provision in redemption is as extensive as the consequences of the fall. (1) For sin, God provides forgiveness, regeneration and sanctification (2) For death, God provides eternal and resurrection life, and (3) for sickness and disease, God provides healing. Thus, during Jesus earthly life, His threefold ministry was (1) teaching God’s word, (2) preaching repentance (the sin problem) and the blessings of God’s kingdom (life), and (3) healing every kind of sickness, disease and infirmity among the people (Mat 4:23-24). This includes defeat of Satan and His demonic powers.
• What is Redemption? • What are the consequences of the fall? Sin, Death, Sickness And Disease •  What is sin? What has Christ done about sin? Forgiveness, Regeneration, Sanctification • What is death? What has Christ done for death? Resurrection Life, Eternal Life • (What is sickness and disease? What has Christ done about sickness and disease? (1) Divine Healing (2) Casting Out Demons
What Is Redemption? Biblical Words for salvation: an overview
“For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God to salvation for everyone who believes, for the Jew first and also for the Greek.” (Rom 1:16). This article examines three of those word pictures: SALVATION, REDEMPTION and JUSTIFICATION.
Email:mercyolumide2004@yahoo.co.uk www.thebiblicalwomanhood.com Mobile: +234 803 344 6614; +234 808 123 7987 God freely offers us eternal life in Jesus Christ. But understanding the exact process by which that life becomes available to us is sometimes difficult. Therefore, God paints various pictures in the Bible to help us grasp the concept, each one with its own unique emphasis. This article examines three of those word pictures: SALVATION, REDEMPTION and JUSTIFICATION.
Email:mercyolumide2004@yahoo.co.uk www.thebiblicalwomanhood.com Mobile: +234 803 344 6614; +234 808 123 7987 To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .