The Police Badminton Club wants to groom players that would take over from the likes of African champion, Dorcas Adesokan in the future. Over 500 children are taking part in the Police College Badminton Club summer holiday clinic, which the force is organizing in conjunction with Pragmatic Badminton Academy. The Badminton Clinic, which, according to the organisers, is geared towards discovering more talents from the grassroots, started on Monday and will end on September 6 at the Mutual Benefit Assurance Police Badminton Complex, Police College, Ikeja. Speaking at the event, Police Badminton Club Captain, Macaulay Igwe said the clinic was organized to ensure that children learn the rudiments of the game from their formative stage. He believed that at the end of the clinic, the coaches would have discovered talents that would be groomed to become stars in badminton. “The clinic is organised to ensure children get trained in badminton techniques during the holidays. Training the children gives more hope that badminton will continue to bring out talents who would do the nation proud at the international level in the future. “Our objective at the Police College Badminton Club is to raise credible children that would be world champions in future. “The event is free, to enable every child have the opportunity to learn the game. We thank our sponsors, Mutual Benefit Assurance, and other companies associated with the clinic for making the event come to reality,” he said. Also speaking on the clinic, Police Badminton Club Coach, Victor Okundaye said the turn out of children for the event was encouraging, adding that at the end of the clinic the objective of the Police Badminton club, which is to groom young ones, will be achieved. “At the two-week clinic apart, from teaching the children the game of badminton, the children will also learn the ability to withstand pressure, pursue life goals, be of good manner and take their education serious. “If children do not learn the techniques of Badminton at early age it would be difficult to get the best when they grow older. I thank parents for giving the children the opportunity to be part of the clinic,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .