Police, residents move to check cultism, violent crimes in Somolu, Bariga Operatives of Ogun State police command have arrested one Biodun Adelokun, a notorious cult member on his way to eliminate a member of a rival cult gang in Ogijo area of Ogun State. The suspect was arrested by policemen attached to Ogijo division who were on routine patrol with the DPO, CSP Muhammed Baba. The team accosted three men on a motorcycle with registration number KJA 778 QH at Fakale Road, Ogijo, but on sighting policemen, the three men took to their heels but were chased by the cops. According to police spokesman, Abimbola Oyeyemi, “the officers succeeded in arresting one of them with a bag. When the bag was searched, a locally-made cut-to-size pistol, a live cartridge, an axe and assorted charms were found in it.“On interrogation, the suspect confessed to being a member of a dreaded cult group and the chief executioner of his group. He stated further that he was on his way with two others to eliminate a member of another cult group who has been marked for execution by his own group.” Meanwhile, the Lagos State police command has called for partnership with residents to curtail the rising cases of cultism and violent crimes in the state. The call was made at a stakeholders’ community policing critical appraisal meeting organized by Area ‘H’ Police Command, Lagos in partnership with Nigeria Policing Programme and Lagos State Police Community Relations Committee (PCRC).
 
Commander, Area ‘H’ Command Ogudu, Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Miller Dantawaye, said the police in the area have initiated moves that involve constant raiding of known hideouts of cultists and criminals in Bariga and Oworosonki axis as well as continuous interface with communities in the zone on better policing of the area.
  
He stressed that the town hall, which attracted various stakeholders including civil society groups, trade unions, traditional rulers and the Commissioner of Police, CP Zubairu Muazu, who was represented by Deputy Commissioner of Police Operations, DCP Mohammad Ali, was part of the initiative to address the security challenge in the area.
 
In his remarks, the Lagos State Chairman of PCRC, Apostle Kehinde Showemimo, called for the involvement of the community in security architecture. According to him, there is no way we can police our environment without the community.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .