According to reports, about 20 – 30 per cent of men suffer from premature ejaculation. Premature ejaculation (PE) occurs when the man ejaculates sooner than he or his partner would like during sex. Occasional PE is also known as rapid ejaculation, premature climax or early ejaculation. PE might not be a cause for worry. However, it can be frustrating if it makes sex less enjoyable and this consequently, affects relationships. However, here are some foods that can enhance and help you last longer during sex: Walnuts are very good for premature ejaculation. One can take walnut with honey daily to avoid premature ejaculation. It helps in making more erection. Bananas contain a unique enzyme called Bromelain, it supports your libido and expands sperm production. It also restores low levels of glucose in bodies and has male libido enhancing minerals and enzymes making you ready for a pleasant night. Avocados are rich in several vitamins including C, K and B. Vitamin K helps in regulating blood flow to important organs of the body. Also, avocados are rich in proteins and fibres that act as natural sex boosters. Cooked spinach contains 66 per cent of your daily folic acid requirement per cup, making it one of the most folate-rich foods around. Additionally, spinach contains a fair amount of magnesium, which also helps improve and stimulate blood flow and has been shown trusted Source to boost testosterone levels. The flavonoids and carotenoids in carrots with the pack of vitamins serve as a booster to your body and also strengthen the muscles of male organs.
They’re used for curing premature ejaculation in a natural way and best food for premature ejaculation. Surprise! Yes, chilli pepper is the most natural food substance that is responsible for causing dilatation of the blood vessels and to increase the flow of blood. It is very clearly evident that chilli has this effect as our face gets flushed with the intake of chillies. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.