 This image released by the US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) shows a Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) officer guarding suspected illegal aliens on August 7, 2019. Officers detained approximately 680 aliens who were unlawfully working at at seven agricultural processing plants across Mississippi. – US officials said that some 680 undocumented migrants were detained in a major series of raids on August 7, at food processing plants in the southeastern state of Mississippi, part of President Donald Trump’s announced crackdown on illegal immigration. “Special agents executed administrative and criminal search warrants resulting in the detention of approximately 680 illegal aliens,” said Mike Hurst, US Attorney for the Southern District of Mississippi. (Photo by HO / US Immigration and Customs Enforcement / AFP)  US Border Patrol agents detained or blocked 82,049 migrants at the frontier with Mexico last month, down from 104,367 in June and a 13-year peak of 144,266 in May, they said. The number, however, was still more than double that of July 2018 and came during the high summer when migrant numbers normally decrease. The Department of Homeland Security attributed the fall to a deal signed with Mexico in June to stem the flow of migrants traveling northward to the United States from Central America, mainly Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador. They also credited cooperation by the three, known as the Northern Triangle countries, in cracking down on migrant smuggling groups. DHS said the number of detained and blocked Guatemalan migrants fell 41 percent last month, while Salvadorans were down 21 percent and Hondurans 16 percent. This image released by the US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) shows a Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) officer precessing a suspected illegal alien on August 7, 2019. Officers detained approximately 680 aliens who were unlawfully working at at seven agricultural processing plants across Mississippi. – US officials said that some 680 undocumented migrants were detained in a major series of raids on August 7, at food processing plants in the southeastern state of Mississippi, part of President Donald Trump’s announced crackdown on illegal immigration. “Special agents executed administrative and criminal search warrants resulting in the detention of approximately 680 illegal aliens,” said Mike Hurst, US Attorney for the Southern District of Mississippi. (Photo by HO / US Immigration and Customs Enforcement / AFP)  President Donald Trump issued strong political and trade threats against Mexico and Guatemala in June and July to encourage their cooperation with Washington to halt the migrant flow. “The situation is improving by every available metric,” Acting Secretary of Homeland Security Kevin McAleenan said in a statement. “But, I want to be very clear, that we remain at and beyond crisis levels in illegal crossings even as our initiatives to address irregular flows and mitigate humanitarian conditions are making an impact,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .