Boko Haram PHOTO:AFP • Insecurity fuelling corruption in Nigeria, says forum
The United Nations has said Boko Haram insurgents killed 27,000 civilians and 24 humanitarian workers in the North East in the last one decade. The UN Resident Coordinator for Nigeria, Edward Kallon, who spoke yesterday at a photo exhibition to mark the 10th anniversary of the crisis in Abuja, named Borno, Yobe and Adamawa states as the worst hit by the uprising that was yet to abate. He regretted that over 7.1 million Nigerians were in need of aid, just as about 130,000 people had been displaced. According to him, the only solution is collaboration to bridge the humanitarian, development, peace and security nexus. He called on government to compliment military intervention in the region with dialogue for an end to the hostilities. Head of UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs in Nigeria, Edem Wosornu, lamented the needless loss of lives, adding that the agency remained supportive of the Federal Government. Governor Mai Mala Buni noted that the disaster had worsened the food security situation in Yobe State, adding that his administration was working towards ameliorating poverty, joblessness and ignorance that gave rise to the insurgency in the first place. Besides, participants at an FCT forum yesterday declared that unbridled corruption and impunity were fuelling insecurity in the country. Comprising citizens, civil society leaders and other stakeholders, the forum expressed worry about the escalating kidnappings, killings and other vices nationwide, stating: “Only ambitious and robust anti-corruption fight can end insecurity in the country.” They spoke at a town hall meeting organised by the Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) in collaboration with UKAID. In his presentation, Prof. Yemi Akinseye-George (SAN) said the most visible impact of corruption in the Nigerian society today manifests in the security challenges facing the country. Representative of the Chairman of the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related Offences Offences Commission (ICPC), Professor Bolaji Owasanoye, Hassan Hafiz Mohammed, said official oath of secrecy should not be a pretext. According to the representative of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Samin Amaddin, every citizen has a role to play in taming corruption. Representative of the National Judicial Council (NJC), Mrs. Hassan Ahmed, urged implementation of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act by states to check graft. SERAP’s deputy director, Kolawole Oluwadare, harped on good governance. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .