Cows are the largest producers of dairy products and considering man’s like for beef, humans are quite intimate with them. Considering man’s dependence and relationship with cows, one would think that we know all there is to know about them but no, many people aren’t aware of these facts about cows listed below: Yes, cows can see behind them because they have eyes that are situated at the side of their heads. Thanks to these eyes, they are able to see a range of more than 300 degrees (compared to our range of 180 degrees). When they have their heads down to graze that range increases to nearly 360, giving them a panoramic view of everything around them. Cows like dogs can out-hear human beings as it is gathered that they are able to pick up sounds from around 16 to 40,000 Hz. Due to the sensitive hearing of cows, researchers advocate for a quiet environment so as to not completely stress these animals out on the farm. It is easy to believe that bulls are angry when they see a matador waving a red cloth but truth is they can’t see the colour red. Bulls, cows and all other cattle are red colour-blind, and it’s the waving of the cloth itself that gets the animals going. A 2009 study from Newcastle University found that cows who are more comfortable around humans are less stressed when milked. When cows are stressed, they produce cortisol, a hormone that inhibits milk production. cows | Photo – Mental Floss Cows may be able to tell when it is about to rain according to new science. Researchers say that cows lie down when they want to conserve heat and energy, but stand up when they’re hot. That doesn’t necessarily mean they’ll lay down when it’s going to rain (chances are they’re just chewing their cud), but it does mean they’re a lot better at telling the weather than we previously gave them credit for. Cows have cliques just like humans. According to research these friendships aren’t just for social purposes either; cows that have a chance to form bonds are less stressed out and may even be smarter. They’ll get stressed if they’re separated from their best friend. They can even hold grudges against other cows! Cows’ stomachs are made up of four pouches—the reticulum, the rumen, the omasum, and the abomasum—each serving a specific purpose. Cows barely chew their food before it enters the first and largest part of the stomach called the rumen. Once the rumen is full, the cow lies down and the reticulum—which is made of muscle and is connected to the rumen so food and water can easily pass back and forth—pushes the unchewed food back up the esophagus and into the mouth. After re-chewing or rumination, the food eventually passes through the omasum. The omasum filters out the water and gives the bacteria in the rumen more time to break down the food and take in more nutrients. Finally, the food enters the abomasum, which functions similar to a human stomach. SOURCE and SOURCE