A supporter of Indigenous People of Biafra. PHOTO: REUTERS/Afolabi Sotunde The Association of Nigerian Professionals in Europe (ANPE) has cautioned the European Union (EU) member-nations over threats by the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) against Nigerians in Europe and other parts of the world. The group gave the warning in a communique issued after an emergency extraordinary meeting in Lisbon. In a statement yesterday by its President, Agwu Onyeke, ANPE condemned the activities of the terrorist group and its leader, Nnamdi Kanu, especially after an assault on immediate past Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu and threat to President Muhammadu Buhari. The group, therefore, recommended that IPOB should be banned across Europe and its collaborators be brought to book. The statement said: “These concerned Nigerians urge the EU to begin treating anyone that hides under an umbrella to attack Nigerian citizens as criminals that should be dealt with by the relevant security agencies. “The Association of Nigerian Professionals in Europe (ANPE) that consists of various interest groups of Nigerians in various fields and disciplines in the EU decided to come together in unison to address the threats posed by the activities of IPOB in the EU and why urgent steps and measures ought to be put in place to protect Nigerians living in the EU as well as those travelling to the EU. “The act of violence against Nigerians travelling to the EU is highly condemnable, and we call on the relevant security agencies in the various countries to identify and deal with whoever chooses the criminal path to inflict pains on others and be immediately deported back to Nigeria. “This is in cognisance of the fact that the image of Nigeria is being smeared by a group of people whose principal motive is driven by the quest for pecuniary gains. The Associated of Nigerian Professionals in Europe condemns the activities of IPOB and calls for more significant actions from the relevant authorities in the EU towards nipping in the bud the nefarious activities of IPOB and their sponsors. “Nigerian politicians and other high-ranking government officials are welcome to visit the European Union anytime they deem fit, not minding the threat made by IPOB and accept the assurances of the various EU countries that will not allow IPOB to endanger anyone’s lives under whatever guise. “The Association of Nigerian Professionals in Europe wishes to emphasise the need to protect the image of Nigeria by all well-meaning Nigerians in the EU by dissociating themselves from activities organised by IPOB and its network of charlatans that have decided to drag the image of Nigeria in the mud.” It, however, also called for a total ban of the activities of the Independent People of Biafra (IPOB) across Europe. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .