Constable Khafi Kareem In Her Police Uniform. PHOTO: Nairaland Forum Big Brother Nigeria housemate, Khafi Kareem is under investigation by the London Metropolitan Police. According to The Sun, the 29-year-old Big Brother Naija “Pepper Dem” housemate who is a Metropolitan Police officer in the United Kingdom was denied permission to appear on the reality show. Scotland Yard said it had not granted Ms Kareem’s request to appear on the programme and that an internal investigation would be carried out. The Met said Ms Kareem was granted unpaid leave for an “unrelated reason” ahead of appearing on the show but her request to take part in the programme was denied. A spokesman said, “A PC attached to the Met’s transformation command requested permission to take part in a reality television entertainment show in Nigeria. Permission was not given. “The Met is aware that the officer has since appeared on the show without authority. “The Directorate of Professional Standards has been informed and will be carrying out an investigation into the circumstances. “The Met does not support the officer’s appearance, nor does she represent the Met whilst appearing on the show.” According to The Sun, Ms Kareem joined the force as a Pc based at Lambeth station in 2015, having worked part-time as a special constable for four years. Khafi Kareem, from Ekiti state, was pictured alongside Commissioner Cressida Dick as the Met celebrated 100 years of women in the force last November. The UK Sun newspaper further reported that Khafi’s sex romp with Ekpata Gedoni on the show has further incensed her colleagues and bosses for bringing the force into disrepute. She is facing an investigation by the Met’s Directorate of Professional Standards, The Sun reported. One colleague said: “She’s a serving British police officer — it’s outrageous. She asked permission to go on the show but, when her request was refused, she went anyway. “Her out-of-office email reply blatantly says that she is away from work, yet no one does anything. “Other officers working with her are furious that she can just disobey orders then swan off the Africa and tarnish the reputation of the force.” A post on the website of Africa Magic, the television channel which broadcasts Big Brother Naija, says Ms Kareem joined the show, the Pepper Dem Gang, “so that she can do societal good”. “Police officer Khafi Kareem believes that you can have it all if you believe in yourself. “She is not only hoping to win the prize money but she wants the exposure that being in Big Brother Naija House brings so that she can do societal good. “What people don’t know about her is that she is secretly talented in spoken word, singing and dancing. She is an Ekiti native who resides in London.”