(Photo by Daniel LEAL-OLIVAS / AFP) Everyone associated with Arsenal Football Club must be feeling very glad as they recorded back to back wins in their first two games of the season for the first time in almost 10 years. Fans of the club have been satisfied with such an impressive start as they hope to finish in the top four this season after missing out last season by just a point. Despite their glorious start to the season, the joy of the fans may be cut short quickly as they face strong title contenders, Liverpool at Anfield in their next fixture this weekend; a fixture which has brought nothing but pain and humiliation in recent seasons. Arsenal has suffered many dreadful results in the hands of Liverpool with last season’s 5-1 demolition highlighting a streak of bad results for the Gunners at Anfield. But with more positivity all around the club, there is much optimism this season that Arsenal can finally go toe to toe with their bitter rivals. The signings of Nicolas Pepe, David Luiz, Dani Ceballos and Gabriel Martinelli have really excited the fans and players of the club as predicted by owner, Josh Kroenke. There has been much scrutiny from fans towards the club owners as regards the transfer budget. The fans felt that as a club with the stature of Arsenal, they should go all out to buy some of the world’s best players. The fans united to write a scathing letter to the owners with the heading, “We care, do you?” in an attempt to appeal to the owners to invest more in the club. The owners responded and promised the fans that they will be excited in the transfer window; and they truly have, spending more than £100 million (much of which will be paid in installments) on four players. Arsenal faces a strong Liverpool team, which has also made a flying start to the season, winning two in two. Liverpool, who missed out on the title to Manchester City last season by a point, will be looking forward to maintaining a winning streak. Although Liverpool are the favorites for this game, you cannot write off Arsenal. The Gunners have arguably one of the best attacks in the league with the likes of last season’s golden boot winner, Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, Alexandre Lacazette and new signing Nicolas Pepe, who notched up 22 goals and 11 assists last season for French side, Lille, ready to pounce on Liverpool’s defence. Arsenal coach, Unai Emery has been criticized in the past for going a bit negative against the Reds, adopting the style of playing with one striker instead of the usual pair of Aubameyang and Lacazette. He should be more adventurous this time around.
The Londoners also look good at the back with the acquisition of David Luiz, who brings a lot of experience to a team, who kept only one clean sheet away from home last season in the league. With the pair of Greek defender, Sokratis and Luiz, the Gunners definitely look better at the back and are sure to avoid conceding as much as last season. With a strong mentality and defensive discipline, Arsenal can cause an upset against the Reds this weekend in their push for a top four place. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .