BABY’S DIET… Exclusive breastfeeding is recommended for the first six months of life WebMD Babies are very tender and should be treated as such. The immunity level of most babies is very low and this makes them prone to infections and diseases. Therefore, the things given to them must be closely monitored. Below are some foods that should be avoided in babies’ meal: Babies do not need much salt in their diet; they should take less than 1 gram a day. Breast milk and formula have all what babies need to take in as food. Your baby’s kidneys are not developed enough to cope with large amounts of sodium, so avoiding added salt is important. Children under 5 years old should not have rice drinks as a substitute for breast milk or infant formula, they may contain too much arsenic. Arsenic is found naturally in the environment and can find its way into our food and water. Rice tends to take up more arsenic than other grains. Honey or foods made with honey is off-limits for the first year because it may contain the spores of the bacteria, Clostridium botulinum. Although harmless to adults, these spores can cause botulism in babies under 1. This fatal illness can cause constipation, weakened sucking, poor appetite, lethargy and even potentially pneumonia and dehydration. Cow milk is okay for adults, but babies under 1 year old should not be given cow’s milk, since it can be hard for infants to digest. Cow’s milk also doesn’t have all the nutrients such as iron and vitamin E a baby needs to grow and develop during his or her first year, which is why breast or formula is the best milk sources. Fruit juice is close to sugar water, containing calories but none of the fat, protein, calcium, zinc, vitamin D or fiber that babies need. It can decrease a baby’s appetites for breast milk or formula that is very important in a baby’s diet. Too much juice can also cause tooth decay, diarrhea and other chronic tummy troubles. Like the nut it is made from, peanut butter can cause serious allergic reactions. A spoonful of the thick, sticky stuff can also cause  choking hazard and might not easily dislodge from the mouth.  The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment