 Inter Milan’s Belgian forward Romelu Lukaku celebrates after scoring during the Italian Serie A football match Inter Milan vs US Lecce on August 26, 2019 at the San Siro stadium in Milan. (Photo by Miguel MEDINA / AFP)  They had a 4-0 win over newly-promoted Lecce after Marcelo Brozovic, with an exquisite curling shot, and Stefano Sensi gave Inter Milan a 2-0 half-time lead. Later on Lukaku, signed from Manchester United this month, opened his account on the hour, while Antonio Candreva completed the rout with a stunning strike from 35 metres. Chinese-owned Inter Milan appointed Conte, who previously won three Serie A titles with Juventus and one English Premier League title with Chelsea, to replace Luciano Spalletti in the close season. This was in a bid to end eight seasons without a major trophy. As expected, there was no place for forward Mauro Icardi. He has been told he is not part of Inter Milan’s plans but has yet to negotiate a move away from the club. “I am very happy and satisfied. I like working with these guys who have always shown great willingness,” said Conte. “Romelu has entered the Inter Milan world with great humility, and he is ready to work for the team.” Lecce, back in the top-flight after a seven-year absence, made a bright start. They forced Brozovic to make an acrobatic clearance and then Milan Skriniar to clear away Gianluca Lapadula’s effort with goalkeeper Samir Handanovic beaten. But Inter Milan quickly began playing the whirlwind football associated with Conte and Lautaro Martinez hit the crossbar with a free header from a Candreva cross. Brozovic broke the deadlock in the 21st minute when he curled a delightful shot into the far corner from the edge of the area. Sensi, making his debut after his move from Sassuolo, added the second three minutes later, scoring with a low shot which went through a defender’s legs. As Inter Milan continued to pour forward after half-time, Lukaku snapped up a rebound after Martinez’s shot was parried by goalkeeper Gabriel to add the third. Lecce finished with 10 men after second-half substitute Diego Farias, making his debut after a move from Cagliari, was sent off for a reckless tackle from behind on Danilo D’Ambrosio. Candreva’s dipping, long-range effort capped a near-perfect start for Conte’s side. It even sent Inter Milan fans home with hope that this season they can finally challenge Juventus for the title. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .