Every woman desires picture perfect, radiant and glowing skin. no matter your profession. The skin, as we have it, is quite fragile, hence, exposing it to harmful chemicals is always a huge risk to take. Stressful lifestyles, hectic work schedules, inadequate sleep, inappropriate diet, exposure to sun rays, excessive smoking, and drinking alcohol are the major factors which make your skin dull and dry. Despite all of these being an inevitable part of your life, you can surely prevent them by developing a flawless skincare routine. This is where homemade beauty recipes come in handy as they are a natural alternative to cosmetic products. So asides making sure you stay hydrated by drinking enough, which is a natural cleanser, here are other home remedies and diet that you need to follow in order to achieve that picture-perfect skin. Spice up your skincare routine with Tumeric! The popularity of turmeric cannot be overemphasized but for those doubting Thomas’, here is why you need to believe this is the real deal; it contains cucurmin, which has strong antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties. It will eliminate the harmful free radicals that are damaging the skin. It also enhances collagen production, and this keeps your skin supple and glowing. All you need are 1/2-1 teaspoon turmeric powder, 4 tablespoons gram flour (also called chickpea flour), and Milk or water. Gram flour is just as essential as every other ingredient because it gently cleanses the skin to make it clean and bright. A spoon of Turmeric | Photo: News Network Method You could try this once or twice a week.  Try the Honey mix Honey is known to have antimicrobial and hygroscopic properties that clean and make your skin soft. It is rich in antioxidants that make the skin soft and healthy and also reduce blemishes. This is one of the simplest skincare methods because all you need is just honey, no additional ingredients. Honey. Photo: The Costa Rica News Method You should apply this method every alternate day.  Experience The Rosewater Magic Rose water is gradually becoming common in this part of the world. The natural skin toner cleanses and refreshes the skin. It brightens the skin tone by stimulating blood circulation and also balances the pH of the skin. All you need is the Rosewater and cotton ball Method: You can repeat this every morning and evening and be rest assured to notice changes soon enough.  Milk works wonders! As cliché as this sounds, this is one of the most underrated skincare methods. Milk is an age-old formula for healthy and radiant skin. Many legends say that Cleopatra’s beauty routine always incorporated honey and milk. Raw milk contains skin-friendly ingredients such as saturated fat, protein, calcium, and vitamin C, while Honey is also known for its moisturizing and antibacterial properties. What you need include; 2 teaspoons milk, 1 teaspoon honey, 1 teaspoon gram flour Milk | Photo – Bustle Method: You can apply this twice a week. However, the most important thing about routines is being consistent with it, pick one easy for you to abide by and watch how your skin is revived. Also, ensure to include sunscreen and moisturizing skin products in whatever routine you choose.