Managing Director of Universal Insurance, Ben Ujoatuonu In efforts to protect the lives of passengers moving from one state to another, Universal Insurance Plc has keyed into the Passengers Manifest Scheme (PAMS) project of the Nigerian Union of Road Transport Workers Association (NURTW), as the official insurers of the scheme. In this partnership, Universal Insurance will be the official insurer of all the passengers and drivers under the scheme. The PAMS initiative is designed to ensure that passengers travelling by road across the country have their names authenticated in the union’s digital manifest, which are covered with genuine insurance policy. In event of an accident, passengers who sustain injuries are treated in the designated hospitals near the location of the incidence, and in case of death, or permanent disability; Universal Insurance Plc, will pay compensation to the victim or to the next of kin of the deceased. Speaking at the launch of the project, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Universal Insurance Plc, Ben Ujoatuonu, said as the official insurance company of PAMS, the underwriter do everything within its power to support the scheme as well as ensure prompt settlement of claims. He said the scheme will go a long way in improving insurance awareness and penetration in the country. “This scheme is intended to ensure safety on the roads, and provides benefits to the passengers and the driver in event of an accident. The benefit is in the position of death, permanent disability, medical expenses to both the passengers and the driver in an event of an accident. For those, who because of the injuries sustained, become permanently disability there is an insurance package by Universal Insurance to make compensation to them. Unfortunately most of the accidents on our roads result to death, in such a situation the next of kin of the deceased also receive compensation from Universal Insurance.” He said. He advised the travelling public to take a cue from the NURTW and also consider taking up personal insurance policies for themselves and their family members to boost the level of compensation they can get when claim occurs, adding that drivers and the PAMS operators should ensure that every passenger completes the passenger manifest form correctly so that in event of any accident the details and information concerning them could be quickly extracted and receive adequate compensation that is due to them. President, National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), Alhaji Najeem Tajudeen, while unveiling the new Passengers Manifest scheme in Lagos, said PAMS is “an upgrade from manual to a fully digital system. This, he said, is part of the efforts to ensure full compliance of its members with the Road Traffic Regulations.He said: “As you would recall, our desire to ensure a uniform manifest scheme for our members and passengers, especially inter-state operators started 10 years ago and we have been working tirelessly with our project consultants and partners to ensure we migrate our current passenger manifest to a more robust, innovative and efficient system. “As computer and information technology continues to drive business and transport systems all over the world, we cannot afford to continue using analogue system of operations in a fast-moving digitalized world. As the biggest transport Union in Nigeria and Africa, we pride ourselves as a Union that cares not only for its members but passengers also. This is to ensure that all Drivers and Passengers’ information are digitally captured and uploaded on a new system.” He announced that with effect from August 2019, all passenger vehicles under NURTW are to commence the use of its unified and secured Manifest nationwide. The NURTW boss also advised drivers to ensure that after the Manifests have been filled by all passengers, it MUST be uploaded via SMS (Text message) or Internet-enabled Mobile Devices before leaving the Motor Parks. Also, required by law, Passengers are required to provide their correct details and those of their Next-of-Kin to ensure easy and fast contact with them if and when the need arises, which is the essence of the Passengers Manifest”.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .