Yemeni security forces gather at the site where a suicide car bomb exploded next to the central bank in Yemen’s second city Aden on October 29, 2016. AFP. PHOTO: SALEH AL-OBEIDI / AFP An Islamic Scholar Sheikh Suleiman Adangba has disclosed that Muslims are the worst victims of global crises and poverty, urging the leadership in all countries of the world to make concerted efforts towards the welfare of the Ummah. Adangba, in an interactive session with the media team of the Muslim Public Affairs Centre, (MPAC) Nigeria, said Muslims need to lead the vanguard of global peace efforts. “The world all over is no more secure, from man made wars to natural unexpected disasters, until we humans living in the world are ready to be merciful to ourselves, no matter the race or creed, no matter the faith or ideologies, we will continue to dwell in an unending pains,” he said. Citing the cases of killings in Palestine, the Christchurch attack and El Paso shootings, the Bosnia-Herzegovina killings, and the several attacks in Nigeria, among others, he said Muslims are the worst victims of global crises. In Nigeria, he urged the leadership of the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs to play a more guardian role in the affairs of Muslims. Quoting from the Qur’an, he warned of the implications of not addressing corruption decisively. Allah said Q30.41 “Corruption doth appear on land and sea because of (the evil) which men’s hands have done, that He may make them taste a part of that which they have done, in order that they may return,” Meanwhile, MPAC Executive Chairman, Disu Kamor, in his Eid-el Kabir message said It has been a revolutionary year for the global Muslim community as thousands of people have sacrificed their lives in the pursuit of peace, security, freedom and liberty. “MPAC takes this time to remember all those who strive for the betterment of their society in the face of seemingly insurmountable hardship and challenges. “On this second major Muslim holiday of the year, we remember the true definition of sacrifice and pray for all those that are still struggling for peace, love, security and justice everywhere,” he stated. Kamor said that an aspect of the Muslim faith is true commitment to the spirit of coexistence and goodwill for others, love for the homeland and readiness to take seriously each citizen’s responsibility of protecting the nation’s interests. He therefore urged Muslims in position of authority to always distinguish themselves as exemplary in public conduct and morality. He stated that it is important that all citizens observe equity, justice in all dealings and eschew immorality, unrighteous and rebellious actions. According to Kamor, without doubt there are real issues and grievances, social and economic injustices, Eid ul Adha reminds us that the way forward is in coming together, building consensus and unity with fellow citizens, accepting differences and seeking common good. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .