Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari Monday asked ministers-designate to brace up for the challenging tasks they are about to embark on in the new administration. “Nigeria, today, needs top managers to handle our new numerous challenges,” Buhari said on Monday at a retreat for ministers-designate in Abuja. “There will be long hours and you must be prepared to live laborious days if we are to serve our people optimally.” The retreat, held ahead of the newly appointed ministers’ swearing on Wednesday, is to sensitise them on the status of the implementation of policies, programmes and projects of government from 2015 to date. The retreat also focused on building a strong platform for synergy and teamwork, acquaint the appointees with the roadmap for delivery of government’s priorities and next level agenda (2019-2023). The president during the retreat also reinforced his administration’s plan to lift over 100 million out of the 200 million Nigerian population out of poverty over the next ten years. He, therefore, urged the ministers designate to work together as a team to achieve the goal of the administration. He said working as a team implies communication and openness to one another. “You must open communication with your colleagues. Lack of communication leads to lack of cooperation and sub-optimal performance,” he said. Buhari submitted the ministerial list to the Senate on July 23, almost two months after he was sworn for a second term. Unlike during his first term when he appointed only 36 ministers, one per each state, Buhari also nominated one per geo-political zone, bringing the total to 43. Buhari listed former ministers such as Chris Ngige, Hadi Sirika, Rotimi Amaechi, Adamu Adamu, Mohammed Adamu, Babatunde Fashola and Lai Mohammed. Others in the list are Uche Ogah, Emeka Nwajuiba, Sadiya Farouk, Musa Bello, Godswill Akpabio, Sharon Ikeazor, Ogbonnaya Onu, Akpa Udo, and Adebayo (Ekiti). Also Timipre Sylva, Adamu Adamu, Shewuye (Borno), Isa Pantami, Gbemi Saraki, Ramatu Tijani, Clement Abam were also declared as part of the nominees. Paullen Tallen, Abubakar Aliyu, Sale Mamman, Abubakar Malami, Muhammed Mamood, Rauf Aregbesola, Mustapha Buba Jedi Agba, Olamilekan Adegbite, and Mohammed Dangyadi.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .