 [FILE PHOTO] Golf  The celebrations will hold at the Ibom Hotel and Golf Resort from August 19 to 25, the officials of the body have disclosed. The 50th anniversary celebrations began in Lagos on July 19 when seven PGAN members, who have distinguished themselves in the service of Nigerian golf, were inducted into its Hall of Fame. The inductees are Patrick Okpomu, Peter Akakasiaka, Tony Uduimo, Lateef Lasisi, Festus Makelemi, Andrew Oche Odoh and Samson Lawal. PGA of Nigeria Secretary, Jide Bolaji disclosed that the association has engaged a sports marketing and event planning firm, Seventh Sports International Network Limited, to help it organise a robust and successful anniversary, adding that the firm would add professional touches to the marketing and planning of the anniversary He also revealed that at the hall of fame induction ceremony, PGA of Nigeria unveiled its sponsors for the anniversary and other programmes lined up to commemorate the golden jubilee of the association. According to the 50th anniversary celebration’s programme, a seminar for all participants on golf professionalism, golf and health, and golf rules and ethics will hold on August 19. On the same opening day, members of the public and government functionaries would be given free golf lessons, which would be followed by a cocktail to welcome participants and officials. On August 20, professional golf starts with the regular tour featuring 125 pros from Nigeria and 10 other African countries, after which would be free golf lessons for youths and children in the state. The regular tour pros will continue their game, while the senior tour players start the competition on August 21. The professional will end their game on August 23, while the invited amateurs and sponsor will take to the course for their individual competition on August 24. August 25 will see the beginning of the amateurs’ team event, which would be followed by a gala night where prizes would be presented to winners in the professional and amateur categories. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .