History was made recently, when members of the Cherubim & Seraphim (C & S) and Celestial Church of Christ (CCC) held a joint praises and prayer session to celebrate the Holy Spirit and pray God to stop the rising insecurity in Nigeria. The event, which saw over 250, 000 members of white garment churches from the United Kingdom, United States of America, Ghana, Serria Leone and 36 states of Nigeria at the Tafawa Balewa Square (TBS), Lagos, was graced by many eminent Nigerians, including former President Olusegun Obasanjo who was clad in white garment with a blue girdle, Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu and the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, who led over 20 traditional rulers to the all night of praises and prayers for redemption of human kind and prosperity for all Nigerians. The supreme head of the C & S Unification Church of Nigeria, Dr. Prophet Solomon Adegboyega Alao and CCC’s Spiritual head, Pastor Mobiyina Oshoffa, led the largest congregation of white garment churches in Nigeria to worship God. Other religious leaders that graced the occasion include, spiritual father of the Eternal Sacred C&S church, Dr. Prophet M.I.O. Ebahor-Erebi and Vice Baba Aladura Godwin Okulaja, Baba Aladura Bashorun of C & S Gospel Church, the spiritual father of C & S Ona Iwa Mimo, His Eminence J. A Ibikunle, Head of Agbo Jesu, Olusegun Akintobi, Prophet S. K. Abiara of Christ Apostolic Church (CAC), Mother Philip Idowu (aka Iya Rainbow), Prophet Israel (aka Genesis Global), Chief Ebenezer Obey, Sammy Okposo, Sir Shina Peters and Queen Salawa Abeni. “Celebrate the Comforter,” as the programme was tagged by its conveners, the renowned international evangelist, Reverend Mother Esther Abimbola Ajayi and her husband, Reverend Dr. Ademuyiwa Ajayi, debuted in London in 2017 and the second edition was held in New York, USA last year. The third of the joint service held in Nigeria was to continue the propagation of the gospel of Jesus Christ and to bring out the powers in unity and love amongst Christians. Mother Ajayi, who is the Founder, Love of Christ Generation Church (C&S) London, advised the worshippers to know who they are worshiping and obey God. “A true worshipper must celebrate the Comforter in love and in newness of life, because Jesus is coming back soon to harvest the true worshippers,” she said. She charged the congregation to avoid sinful living and be good ambassadors of white garment churches across the globe. “The white garment church has become the cynosure of all eyes in Christendom, and we must appear as the light of the world. It is only after someone abstains from sin and abide by the scriptural standard according to Galatians 5:23-24, before he can claim to be celebrating the Comforter.”
  
Apparently stunned by the mammoth crowd at TBS and the Holy spirit-filled environment, the Ooni of Ife led the congregation in praises for about five minutes and bowed to the supremacy of the Most High as the Creator of all things and King of kings.In reverence and utmost submission to God, the foremost traditional ruler described C& S and CCC as the special gifts from God to Nigeria and indeed, Africa, as they remain the true and original churches that sprang from this part of the world. He said no king of this world has power, as all power belongs to the Supreme Being, Who controls everything that happens in this world and Heaven. He charged people to cultivate the habit of thanking God, no matter their situation, noting that there is hope for anyone that is still alive. Obasanjo, who thanked God for being part of the programme since 2017 when it started in London, emphasised the efficacy of prayer and thanking God to solving problems. He said God’s mercy is more than enough for all creatures on earth and in Heaven and led the congregation in songs of praises.Governor Sanwo-Olu, who sported smart white native attire, applauded the organisers, for the program that brought together thousands of worshippers to worship God in one accord. He said he was proud to be associated with the organisers and expressed satisfaction that the event of such magnitude held at the centre of excellence. The event reached its climax, when Mother Ajayi awarded scholarship to an orange seller, who was spotted singing the songs of Tope Alabi, a popular musician while hawking on the street. The scholarship, according to the philanthropist, covered the education of the teenage boy up to the university level. Yinka Ayefele, the gospel musician gave testimony of his encounter with Mother Ajayi last year in London and her prayers, which made him to become a father of triplet.He said: “I met Iya Adua last year in London, and while praying for me, she prophesied that I would become a father this year. And to God’s glory, I am now a father of triplets, the first artiste to give birth to triplet in Nigeria.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .