 Nyesom Wike  The governor stated this view when the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Human Rights, Callamard Agnes, visited him at Government House, Port Harcourt on a fact-finding mission.His words: “We believe that there should be state police for us to effectively fight crimes in the country. Our system is fashioned after the United States, which has Federal, states and local police. “Each of them has their responsibilities. In the present situation, if a crime is committed, the Commissioner of Police (CP) reports to the Inspector General of Police (IGP) before taking action,” he said.He told the United Nations delegation that the Rivers State Government established the State Neighbourhood Safety Corps Agency to support security agencies with information, but it was frustrated from commencing operations for political reasons. Responding, Callamard Agnes said she was in state to document the nature and extent of killings by state and non-state actors.“I am interested in how the Federal and state governments respond to the challenges of violence by state and non-state actors. I would be grateful if you will share with us information on killings by state and non-state actors,” she said. Besides, the Ogoni Youth Federation (OYF) said they were horrified by the daily killings and arson in Ogoniland and inability of government to end violence in the area.Against this backdrop, OYF President, Yamaabana Legborsi, said the group will today embark on a Save-Our-Soul (SOS) walk to Government House, Port Harcourt to prevail on the state to save Ogoni from imminent extinction. Meanwhile, in neighbouring Yenagoa in Bayelsa State, gunmen suspected to be hired assassins invaded the home of Senator Nimi Barigha-Amange at Ekeki Estate.Barigha-Amange, a member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), represented Bayelsa East Senatorial district between 2007 and 2011. The Guardian learnt that the invasion occurred around 2pm on Tuesday where two armed men with AK 47 rifles jumped through the back fence of his house with the help of a long stool.While some residents attributed the incident to the rising insecurity in Yenagoa, others claimed it might not be unconnected with the political rivalry ahead of the September 3, 2019 PDP governorship primaries in the state.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .