 Rt. Rev. Dr. Owen Nwokolo<br />  The Diocesan Bishop, who made the call during the 1st Session of the 31st Synod, held at Ascension Anglican Church, Idemili North Local Government in Anambra State, urged the Judiciary to be courageous and take a firm stand against corruption. He also enjoined the 9th National Assembly to revisit the recommendations of the National Conference and restructure Nigeria, which remains a nation in distress, with political offices becoming sources of wealth for the privileged few, and appointments have become lopsided along ethnic lines. He urged the Federal Government to checkmate Fulani herdsmen’s activities to prevent reprisal attacks from affected communities, tasking administration to reduce the high rate of unemployment by siting more industries in urban and rural areas. Speaking on the theme: “Stand firm in faith,” the cleric said there was need for the Church, as well as individual Christians to brace up to the present challenges, take their stand and defend their beliefs, as discipleship without a cost is not genuine. Lamenting the influx of strange gospel and false doctrines, such as same sex marriage and sodomy, among others, Nwokolo argued that Christianity stands as the only hope for mankind’s salvation and charged believers to come out from their hiding places and face the Christian race squarely, giving no room to slackness, fear or compromise. Quoting copiously from the Scriptures, the Bishop explained that standing firm in the faith is to be true to what one believes; having absolute unshakeable confidence in God, believing the gospel and reliance on the atonement by Christ’s death, resurrection, and ascension and hope in His second coming. He encouraged Christians to be alert to the devil’s wiles and not be careless or easily deceived. He said they should be consistent and live a balanced life, as there is always a roaring lion seeking to weaken their faith. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .