 PDP National Secretariat, Abuja  Casual Foundation
UNKNOWN to most Nigerians, the idea of constructing a befitting national headquarters (secretariat) for the then ruling PDP came in 2008, during the tenure of Prince Vincent Ogbulafor. Shortly after emerging as the caretaker committee chairman of Ebonyi State chapter of the party, Engineer David Umahi Nweze had decried the idea of paying huge amounts as rent for the secretariat instead of using the money to put up a permanent structure for the party.
   
Aided by about N50million loan facility from a commercial bank and levies on every party member holding elective or appointive office, Umahi and the caretaker committee members embarked on the construction a twin block of imposing structure along the Abakaliki – Enugu Express Road in Abakaliki to house the state secretariat of PDP in Ebonyi.    
  
It was while on his visit to commission the Ebonyi PDP headquarters building that the national chairman, Ogbulafor, not only expressed his delight at what he saw but declared that the national headquarters “would borrow a leaf from Ebonyi and put up a permanent structure at the federal capital to serve as our national secretariat.”
  
The then governor of Kaduna State, Alhaji Namadi Sambo, an architect, was commissioned to put up the project design. And in a bid to get the structure off the drawing board, PDP organised fundraising on November 14, 2008, targeting N10b out of which it raked in N6b. The dinner was chaired by Vice President Goodluck Jonathan and the highest donation came from Mr. Femi Otedola, while the richest man in Africa, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, announced a donation of N3b worth of cement.  Where Is The Money
FOUR months after the party got the N21b infusion; it lost the general election, thus compounding the woes of the property along Muhammadu Buhari Way in the city centre Abuja. Six months after President Buhari was inaugurated into office, PDP disclosed through its spokesman, Metuh, that it was cash strapped and was therefore unable to continue work on the new secretariat building.  
   
Eleven years after, the fund has become the major hindrance to the project, which was originally billed to be completed in two and a half years. Sources disclosed that PDP’s surprising loss to the APC, especially fear of retribution from President Buhari made some of the donors at the December 2014 fundraising to rethink their commitment.
  
It was also alleged that some state governors, whose political fortunes were altered by the 2015 election decided not to honour their promises, even as the defection of others contributed to the failure by PDP to realise in total the expected fund.    
  
Due to the frequent changes in leadership, especially the prolonged leadership tussle between factions of the party led by Senator Ahmed Makarfi and Ali Modu Sheriff, it was not possible for PDP to render a credible account on the monies realszed from the several fundraising efforts.
   
Attacks by the ruling APC on PDP’s style of leadership in the past sixteen years went a long way to diminish the credibility of the party’s efforts at constructing a befitting national secretariat that could stand as a beacon of Nigeria’s enduring democracy.
   
Against that background, it has not been possible to ascertain whether the N21b alleged to be slush funds from the office of the National Security Adviser (ONSA) Sambo Dasuki, was the same as the accruals from the fundraising.
       
The whereabouts of the N21b realised during the 2014 fundraising have remained a subject of conjecture and buck-passing. Former PDP national publicity secretary, Mr. Olisa Metuh, had directed The Guardian to the national financial secretary of the party, saying that he (the financial secretary) was in the best position to respond to such inquiries.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .