 [FIL EPHOTO] NSCDC  It was gathered that the NSCDC operative at about 10:30 p.m. on Saturday was battling to free his rifle when the gun went off and hit the student identified as Obinna, in Efeke-ama area of the community. The deceased, a year one student of Petrochemical Engineering, was rushed to Tantua hospital, while the killer operative was taken into custody by the Divisional Police Officer of Ammassoma. Some persons, however, alleged that the suspect was in the company of other police officers at a popular bar known as Usual Karaoke bar when his gun failed and led to the accidental discharge of three bullets into the victim’s body. The suspect was also identified as being on official escort duty of a chieftain of the All Progressive Congress (APC) from the area, Chief Abel Ebifemowei, alias OSUO 1. Speaking with newsmen, Ebifemowei described the incident as unfortunate, but denied being at the drinking bar nor using the Senator Heineken Lokpobiri campaign vehicle at the time of the incident. Meanwhile, Friday Ani, a second-year student of the Enugu State University of Science and Technology (ESUT), who had taken to cucumber farming to supplement efforts of his parents to see him through higher education, died in an attempt to claim his part of proceeds from the cucumber farming from his business partners. The Guardian gathered that the undergraduate had met his untimely death last week when he had gone to demand his share of the N6 million allegedly raised from harvests from the farm. It was gathered that in an attempt to raise extra funds to finance his education, the 24-year-old student had combined with one Nwaobasi Sampson, a farmer, who hails from Ntezi Ezza in Ishelu local council, Ebonyi State and one Eze Paul to cultivate cucumber on the understanding that its proceeds would be shared equally. For several months, they were said to have made good harvest and much proceeds from the sale of the cucumber. The business, however, turned awry when Nwaobasi allegedly bolted with the proceeds, leaving Ani and Eze bare. Ani was said to have insisted on his money and traced Nwaobasi to one of his farms, where he demanded the payment of his share. According to the Enugu State Police Public Relations Officer, Ebere Amaraizu, who confirmed the report, a quarrel had ensued between the duo, leading to the killing of Ani. Amaraizu stated that Ani was killed and buried inside the bush to avoid traces, adding that the suspect (Nwaobasi) had gone into hiding since then, while relations of the deceased reported a case of a missing person. He added: “Following the report, the Commissioner of Police, Suleiman Balarabe, directed a full-scale investigation and through intelligence, Nwaobasi Sampson, the suspect, was nabbed by operatives of Unity Division of the police in Enugu with the partnership of the neighborhood watch group.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .