Step No. 2 Food (Living food or Dead food) Part 1
Food is essential to life and by the life I am referring to the total well being of the human being. In other words, I am talking about a life of wellness, devoid of any disease, a life well-nourished and life of optimal growth for the young ones that are still growing. Even for the older ones who are not necessarily adding to their height, food must provide that feeling of newness and wellness as the old cells in their bodies are replaced by new ones from living food full of the right nutrients. In Deuteronomy 30: 19 of the Holy Bible, Moses said to the children of Israel, “I call heaven and earth to record against you, that I have set before you life and death, blessing and cursing: therefore choose life, that both thou and thy seed may live.” Early after GOD created man, He gave him what I always call the Genesis 1: 29 Diet, a diet of life (a blessing to man). However, like everything else, the man was not satisfied with what GOD gave him. He decided to process and refine what GOD gave. Unknown to the man he was adding curses and death to the diet GOD most graciously gave him, to support his life here on planet earth. The whole idea of processing the raw living food of Genesis 1: 29, was to extend the shelf life of the food, make it sweeter, more attractive to the eyes and to attract more money. This is done by adding chemical preservatives, bleaching agents, colourings and other additives, which together bring in a load of chemicals, heavy metals into the body. Not only that, daily in our kitchen, we add death to the food that we eat by cooking and over-cooking them. All of these processes together rid the raw living food of important vitamins, minerals, fiber, antioxidants, enzymes, phytonutrients, and trace elements. What is left is food with high glycaemic indices (able to cause type 2 diabetes), devoid of all that is mentioned above. From an early age, therefore, the foundation for the onset of any of the degenerative diseases is set. Now the above scripture becomes true, there are life and death, blessing and curses before the human race. Unfortunately, almost all human beings have chosen death and curses and the result which is the manifestation of the degenerative diseases has not deterred people from continually making the same choice as those who have gone before. Let me make this statement I have made before in the past: Whatever goes through the mouth is what causes diseases in man, if you eat the right food it will give you life and the wrong food will cause death. Read More: Seven steps to healthy living The right food includes raw vegetables, fruits, grains, nuts and seeds that are full of fiber, enzymes, vitamins, minerals, etc. These foods do not put a burden on the digestive system; instead, they support the digestive functions of the intestines. Because of their high fiber content, they speed up the passage of fecal matter through the colon and as they do so, they also cleanse the intestines. Put together, therefore, these good, living foods, which support life, do actually prevent the occurrence of the chronic degenerative diseases by preventing the buildup of waste matter in the intestines that release acid into the circulation. Furthermore, because of their high vitamin (antioxidant) content, they readily overwhelm and neutralize the free radicals in the body and damage to the cells and tissues becomes reduced to the barest minimum, if not completely eliminated. Aging and obesity are checked by these antioxidants. Generally speaking, this diet, which is a living diet, nourishes living cells and tissues in the body making sure that value is added to the new cells always and prevent these tissues from degenerating to the extent of causing diseases, including cancer. On the other hand, the dead, processed and refined food that we are all hooked onto, bring us curses and death. These dead food include animal proteins and fat, hydrogenated oils, dairy products, refined table salt and white sugar, white flour products (everything that is produced with white flour), white and polished rice, spices made from MSG (Monosodium glutamate) and all cooked food. While the living foods are mainly alkaline-forming, the dead foods are acid and they support infection, decay, and degeneration of the cells. The cells degenerate because we are using dead food to nourish living cells and tissues. I shall continue from here in next week’s edition of The Guardian Newspapers To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .