 [FILE PHOTO] Goodluck Ebele Jonathan  The party was reacting to a media report credited to the former president where he described the APC in Bayelsa State as a party that lacked political presence at the ward, local council and state levels to win the state governorship election slated for November 16, 2019. Jonathan, who stated this during the PDP Elders’ Advisory Council meeting at the Government House in Yenagoa, added that a large number of governorship aspirants on the platform of the PDP indicated the dominance of the party as the preferred platform for election. The APC’s Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena, in an interview with newsmen in Abuja, cautioned the former president to be mindful of making misguided comments so as not to ridicule his person. “Jonathan is attempting to rewrite history on presidential elections conducted under his watch in Bayelsa State while he was president. He never won. “Former President Goodluck Jonathan even lost in his senatorial zone in the last 2019 National Assembly election won by the APC candidate. So, one wondered the party Jonathan referred to as not being on the ground in Bayelsa State.” The party, which accused the PDP and the outgoing Bayelsa State Governor Seriake Dickson of plotting to use state security outfit, Operation Doo Akpo, to rig the forthcoming Bayelsa governorship election, said: “It is clear that no amount of falsehood and rigging can stop PDP’s imminent defeat in the forthcoming governorship election. The PDP has become very unpopular and stands rejected in Bayelsa State.” The party was reacting to a media report credited to the former president where he described the APC in Bayelsa State as a party that lacked political presence at the ward, local council and state levels to win the state governorship election slated for November 16. Jonathan, who stated this during the PDP Elders’ Advisory Council meeting at the Government House in Yenagoa, added that a large number of governorship aspirants on the platform of the PDP indicated the dominance of the party as the preferred platform for election. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .