 SMEs  According to them, if Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in Nigeria must thrive in their endeavors, partners must learn to trust and respect themselves, and this can only be achieved if they build their reputation on integrity rather than seek for shortcuts.Speaking at the National Industry Leaders Summit 2019, themed: “Reputation Capital”, held recently in Lagos, to commemorate his birthday, the Co-founder Pertinent Limited/Chief Executive Officer, Globarel Limited, Sunday Olorunsheyi, said there was an urgent need to reorient young Nigerians to focus on building their reputation on integrity. Olorunsheyi, who also launched a book titled: “From Slum To Significance”, said his business was able to grow beyond expectations because he believed in posterity and did everything possible to live a life of integrity.He said: “Our business is growing today, neither because of my professional qualifications, nor because of my experience in the business world, but sincerely, it has been practically on the platform of reputation capital. “People that have been able to trust us with little resources graduated to trusting us with more bigger resources and we are still looking forward to achieving more in business.“We are in a world where people, especially the youths believe in shortcuts, where they believe that to make it in life, you must cut corners and that you can’t make fast money legitimately. I needed to tell people that it’s possible and that in everything we do, posterity is always going to tell.”He urged youths to make a meaningful impact anywhere they find themselves, though it might be challenging, rather than always focus on money. Also, one of the facilitators, Bola Oba, in his remarks, encouraged Nigerian youths to be steadfast and committed to the development of the nation’s economy, rather than go abroad in search of greener pastures. He said: “I encourage the youths that Nigeria is a still a land of opportunities, a good mine, but you do not go to gold mines to go and pick gold on the ground, you go there to break the earth to get to it and in breaking the earth, the elements of skill, diligence, perseverance and collaboration are fundamentals cannot be excused away. “I left Nigeria in my early 20’s and went abroad. The things I was looking for in diaspora then, I get more of them now and enrich people in diaspora. I think something is wrong with the thinking system that we need to change in our youth,” he said.Speaking about the book titled: “From slum to stardom”, Mrs Bosede Olusola-Obasa, said the book tells how Olorunsheyi, who was not born with a silver spoon, now produces golden spoons for people and distributes. She said the book tells a lot about Olorunsheyi, and reputation capital, noting that apart from him starting Pertinent Limited for himself and his partner, he has always worked on his character and has made huge sacrifices in humanitarian endeavors  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .