 [FILES] Trees<br />  The Chairman of the council, Alhaji Abdulrahman Maigoro, made the appeal on Thursday in Keffi during a flood senisitisation campaign organised by the council in collaboration with the state Emergency Management Agency (NASEMA). Maigoro also urged Nigerians to stop indiscriminate dumping of refuse in the interest of their lives and for the overall development of the state. According to him, this programme is to educate ourselves on how to avoid flooding which includes proper ways of refuse disposal, avoiding of the erection of structures along drains and waterways which will block the free passage of running water. “First and foremost, I want to thank Gov. Abdullahi Sule for giving attention to good policies and programmes that will have a direct bearing on the lives of people of the state. “The aim of this programme today is to sensitise, create awareness and educate our residents on the dangers of flooding to societal development. “There is a need for all of us to take precautionary measures against flooding in our interest and for the overall development of the country. “It is in view of this that I want to advise my residents and other Nigerians not to build structures along waterways and we must also avoid indiscriminate dumping of refuse into the gutter, market place or anywhere to prevent flooding. “I further call on my residents to plant trees in to tackle environmental challenges in the area,’’ he said.
Maigoro restated his commitment to support any programme that would have a direct bearing on the lives of Nigerians. He urged Nigerians to live in peace and tolerate one another irrespective of their affiliations for development to thrive. The Executive Secretary of NASEMA, Mr Zachariah Allumaga, said that the agency collaborated with the council to sensitise residents on dangers of flooding to societal development. “If we will recall, the Federal Ministry of Environment and Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NIMET) in collaboration with Nigeria Hydrological Services Agency (NIHSA) have earlier issued a warning of flooding particularly in 2019, hence the need for this awareness,” said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that Gov. Abdullahi Sule launched the campaign on `Disaster Risk Management of the 2019 seasonal rainfall prediction on impending flood across the state’ on Aug. 23, in Garaku, Kokona Local Government Area.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .