Students fleeing gunmen attack Man murdered over disputed land in Akwa Ibom
A 300-Level Marine Engineering student of the Rivers State University, Port Harcourt, known as Montana Million, has been shot dead in what seems to be a reprisal attack. This is coming two days after a final year student of the Department of Agriculture, Prince Barisua Tuakabari, was shot dead in a cultist attack. The state police command has meanwhile arrested two students, Elechi Chibuzor and Nnamdi Chibundu, in connection with the killing of Prince Barisua, who was murdered after writing his final year examination on Monday. The Guardian gathered that Montana Million, who hails from Etche Local Government Area of the state, was killed yesterday by suspected members of a rival cult group while on his way to the campus. Sources said the assailants pumped several rounds of bullets into his body, which did not penetrate. Afterwards, they decided to attack him with machetes and eventually hacked him to death. This fresh killing has further heightened tension of a looming cult war in the university. Due to resurgence of cult violence and other social menace in the university, the Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, had on Tuesday queried the Vice Chancellor, Prof. Blessing Didia, to respond in writing within 24 hours the cause of the violence. The police spokesperson in Rivers, DSP Nnamdi Omoni, who confirmed yesterday’s killing, said two persons arrested for the killing of Barasua are already helping the police in its investigation. In another development, the family of Chief Joseph Effiong of Ikot Efaha Itong community in
Ibiaku Itam, Itu local government area of Akwa Ibom State has been thrown into mourning following the murder of their 42-year-old son, Edidiong Joseph Effiong. According to the father of Edidiong, Chief Effiong, the suspected killer of his son, who is alleged to be one Ambrose, is at large. Narrating the ordeal to journalists, he said his son died untimely owing to a land dispute, explaining that he inherited the disputed land from his late father. “The land belonged to my late father since 1930 and when I grew up I inherited the land after his death. Part of the land is where I am building this house and shops but in 2010, this boy of about 35 years started laying claim to the land, saying someone in the community showed him the plot as belonging to them. The matter has been in court since 2010 and the case was to be decided on August 8, when he decided to take the laws into his own hands perhaps in anticipation of losing the case,” he said. Explaining further, the deceased father said the fleeing suspect had come to his compound armed with a machete, which he threw and caught in mid air three times before running into the disputed land. “With that sharp machete, he cut my plantain in that land and started throwing abuses at me. When I was told he had cut the plantain, I asked that he be left to go with it perhaps he was hungry, but my son, apparently provoked by his abuses, pursued him and he got stabbed.” Confirming the incident, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Odiko Macdon, said the Commissioner of Police, Mr. Zaki Ahmed, has ordered the case be transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department for investigation. He assured the family that even though the suspect is on the run, “no effort would be spared to apprehend him to face the law.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .