 Prince Dapo Abiodun of Ogun state. Photo/Twitter/dabiodunMFR  To perfect the move, Governor Dapo Abiodun stressed that henceforth, any property found to be harbouring criminals would be demolished and the owners jailed after prosecution in court. He also disclosed that to effectively fight crimes and criminality, the state government would raise funds to re-launch the state’s Security Trust Fund to allow individuals and stakeholders to make voluntary contributions. Immediate past Governor Ibikunle Amosun had launched a similar Trust Fund during his first tenure to raise funds to tackle insecurity. Abiodun, who spoke at a media briefing in his office at Abeokuta, said: “Any property or facility found to be a hideout to criminals will not only be taken over by the state but will be demolished. “The landlords will also be arrested and handed over for prosecution for harbouring criminals because we will consider and treat them as accomplices. “We are working towards strengthening our security apparatuses in the state. We are re-organising the Ogun State Security Trust Fund and it will comprise key stakeholders, government officials and some of our retired law enforcement officers. “We will be re-launching the State Security Trust Fund. We will ensure that it has the right corporate governance so that it can provide the required funding for our law enforcement agencies.” The state government was reacting to the kidnapping of a Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) pastor and others at Ogbere on the Sagamu-Benin-Ore expressway last Wednesday, but the police and other security agents rescued them on Friday. “The incidents are a test of our resolve and we have demonstrated in clear terms our strong commitment to ensuring that our dear state will continue to be secured for our people and all those who have made our dear state their home. “We are committed to giving Ogun State and the people a focused and qualitative governance and we are committed to creating an enabling environment for a public and private sector partnership, which we believe, will be fundamental to the growth of the state and the individual prosperity of our people,” Abiodun said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .