[FILE PHOTO] Senator Ike Ekweremadu The ruling All Progressives Congress Monday said the attack on Senator Ike Ekweremadu is an indecent action below the acceptable standard of behaviour expected of Nigerian citizens. “No Nigerian should be assaulted in the manner Senator Ekweremadu was,” APC’s spokesman Lanre Issa Onilu said in a statement. “It is an indecent action and it is below the acceptable standard of behaviour expected of our citizens whether in Nigeria or abroad.” Ekweremadu Saturday was physically assaulted by some members of the Indigenous People of Biafra in Nuremberg, Germany. He confirmed the attack in a statement by his media aide Uche Anichukwu. The Senator said he was disappointed by the conduct of the IPOB members and had reported the attack to the Nigerian Ambassador to Germany, Yusuf Tuggar. “I tried to engage them, but when they became unruly, I had to leave the venue. The organisers also invited the police and I was accompanied by the venue,” Ekweremadu said. A 64-second video about the attack had gone viral on the social media earlier on Saturday. In the video, Ekweremadu was seen being violently questioned over his alleged conspiracy with the Federal Government to proscribe the IPOB in the South East and killing several of its followers. Contrary to their stance, Ekweremadu said he is “one of the persons, who have spoken up on justice for Ndigbo, the Python Dance, judicial killings in Igbo land and elsewhere both on the floor of the Senate and in my written and personal engagements with the Presidency and the media.” Onilu However stated that the Ekweremadu’s party the opposition People’s Democratic Party should be held responsible for IPOb’s actions because they allegedly supported IPOB’s call for a separation in the past. He said the PDP and its leaders chose to play politics over a matter that called for collective patriotic actions when IPOB raised a terror group in the South East. Onilu maintained that “it is clear that PDP and its other shortsighted co-travellers who were the main cheerleaders of IPOB owe this country an apology. IPOB hid under regional identity to perpetrate criminality having recruited some misguided elements and miscreants. “We all have a responsibility to collectively rise against evil wherever we find it and in whatever guise it appears. We hope lessons have been learnt from this unfortunate incident,” he added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .