 Former INEC Chairman, Attahiru Jega  Jega, who is now a card-carrying member of the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) and Chairs the SWOT analysis committee of the party, was listed among the prominent Northerners to reposition the party against the All Progressives Congress (APC) and People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2023 polls. Also named among the new entrants into PRP is the publisher and Chairman of the Trust Group of Newspapers, Kabiru Yusuf, who is also a member of the committee whose mandate is to critically examine the strength of PRP, its weaknesses and the opportunities available to the party as well as threats to its existence and wellbeing. Other members of the committee include Professor Momodu Kassim Momodu. Dr. George Kwanashie, Ayo Sando, Dr. Obi Osisiogwu and Professor Nath Abraham. According to a statement signed by the National Publicity Secretary, Alhaji Abdul Gombe, the decision to constitute the committees was reached at the party’s 62nd National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting held in Kaduna. The statement also added that the committee is also to recommend to the party strategies to adopt for its survival and growth. Other committees set up include the Membership Mobilisation Committee and the Finance and Funding Committee. Gombe said the committees are also expected to review the performance of the party in the 2019 general elections with a view to repositioning the party for better performance and facing new challenges of Nigerian politics. The Membership Mobilisation Committee is headed by Alhaji Sule Mohammed with the Group Managing Director of Leadership Newspapers, Abdul Gombe, as a member among others, while Alhaji Falalu Bello is the Chairman for the Finance and Funding Committee with other six members. The statement said the committees are to be formally inaugurated in Abuja on August 17, 2019, and expected to file in their reports within two months from the day of their inauguration. It also requested party members with ideas to contribute to the committees to do so. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .