Missy Elliott – ICONOLOGY American hip-hop rapper and songwriter, Melissa Arnette Elliott better known as Missy Elliott has released a new EP titled “Iconography”, along with the video of her new single, “Throw It Back”. This is the first project the five-time Grammy Award winner would release in 14 years. Her last body of work “The Cookbook” was released in 2005. Although Elliot has been off the music scene however she has released a handful of songs, made a few guest features, and made an appearance at the 2015 Super Bowl, alongside Katy Pery. The “Work It” singer announced the EP, which she dubbed as a “collection of songs.”, on Thursday afternoon on her Instagram page: “This year has been a tremendous year for me…I am humbled and grateful. THANK YOU for allowing me to smell the roses. You, my fans, and God are the reason I am here and have celebrated every milestone with me! So, I have a SURPRISE for you… let’s continue the celebration at midnight tonight…I’m dropping a collection of new songs! Let’s #ThrowItBack to a time when music just felt good and made us want to dance! Sincerely, Dr. Melissa “Missy” Elliott #Iconology“   This year has been a tremendous year for me…I am humbled and grateful. THANK YOU for allowing me to smell the roses. You, my fans, and God are the reason I am here and have celebrated every milestone with me! So, I have a SURPRISE for you… let’s continue the celebration at midnight tonight…I’m dropping a collection of new songs! Let’s #ThrowItBack to a time when music just felt good and made us want to dance! Sincerely, Dr. Melissa “Missy” Elliott #Iconology A post shared by  Missy Elliott (@missymisdemeanorelliott) on Aug 22, 2019 at 11:00am PDT  Missy Elliot is the first female hip-hop artist to be inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame, has sold more than 30 million records worldwide, thanks to hits like “Work It,” “Get Ur Freak On” and “WTF (Where They From).” She is the only female rapper to have six studio albums certified platinum. On the 26th of August, Missy Elliott will receive MTV’s Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award at the 2019 VMAs. Watch Throw It Back video.