 Yahaya Bello. Photo: Twitter/lugardhouse  Reacting to what he described as a dastardly act, Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello condemned the killing in strong terms, assuring that the state government will ensure that those behind the murder are apprehended and prosecuted. A statement issued by the Director General, Media and Publicity to the governor, Kingsley Fanwo, quoted the governor as saying that the killing was unacceptable to the government and the people of Kogi State.He, however, urged restraint, maintaining that security agencies have been deployed to ensure arrest of the murderers. “As governor of the state, I swore to protect and secure lives and property of the people. It is, therefore, unacceptable to us for anyone to murder our citizens. “Every life is important and we will stop at nothing to unravel the masterminds of the heinous crime. Our administration places high premium on security and it is therefore unfortunate that we still have flashes of such dastardly acts,” he stated. He also commiserated with the family of late Oshe and the Suku Community for the irreparable loss, adding: “All I can assure you at the moment is that we will ensure justice is done and that we will spread our security dragnet to avert this kind of security issue in future.” Relatedly, the state’s Local Government Service Commission has disclosed that 19,950 of the 24,959 council workers have been cleared for payment after the screening exercise. Executive Chairman of the commission, Professor Shuaibu Ahmed Ibrahim, who made this known in Lokoja yesterday, noted that those with genuine complaints were also attended to and have their names included on the payrolls.He added that the employees were already enjoying the benefits of bona fide workers under the commission’s supervision. He added that the commission has equally delisted no fewer than 4,000 ghost workers from its payrolls in the 21 councils of the state, saying the commission arrived at the figure after the recent screening and review for staff members from the local government areas. Governor Bello had on assumption of office in 2016 commenced screening of the state and local government employees to ascertain the state’s actual wage bill.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .