Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi Residents of Nsukka town are happy with the re-election of Gov. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi for the second tenure in Enugu State and pledged their continued support for his administration. The residents in separate interviews with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Nsukka on Monday, described Ugwuanyi’s victory as “well deserved,’’ given his good performance in the past three years as the governor of the state. Ugwuanyi, a candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) polled 449,935 votes to defeat his closest rival Sen. Ayogu Eze, candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC), who scored 10, 423 votes. The governor was on Sunday declared winner of March 9 Governorship Election in Enugu State by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Mr Onyema Idoko, the Director-General of Ugwuanyi Governorship Campaign in Enugu North Senatorial District said residents voted massively for the governor because they had seen his good works in their senatorial districts, local governments and communities. “Enugu State has witnessed uncommon transformation in the past three years under the administration of Ugwuanyi. “Ugwuanyi’s victory, to me is a thank you by Enugu State residents for his good performance for the past three years,’’ he said. Mr Tony Ugwu, a former Council Chairman in Nsukka Local Government Area said the victory of Ugwuanyi was not a surprise to him given the numerous achievements of his administration. “There is no community in Enugu State that has not benefitted from Ugwuanyi’s administration. “He pays civil servants in the state their salaries on 25th of every month and pays them 13th month every year. “The governor’s good performance, humility and God-fearing endeared him to the people of Enugu State,’’ he said. Mr Fabian Onah, Chairman of PDP in Nsukka Local Government Area (LGA) said Enugu State had witnessed peace and massive infrastructure development during the first tenure of Ugwuanyi. According to Onah, every resident in the state is happy as well satisfied with his numerous achievements in Enugu State. “Enugu State under Ugwuanyi has witnessed peace and uncommon transformation; so his victory is well deserved and pays back for his good performances. “In spite of the state’s lean resources, Ugwuanyi paid workers regularly as well as ensured that every community benefitted at least in infrastructure development,’’ he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .