 Eye test  Mammogram
This is an X-ray that looks for changes in the breasts. The American Cancer Society recommends that women age 45 and older should have one every year. Other medical groups suggest that women should have mammograms every two years starting when they’re 50, until they’re 74. Talk to your doctor about what’s best for you. Eye Tests 
Regular eye tests are important because your eyes do not usually hurt when something is wrong. A sight test is a vital health check for your eyes that can pick up early signs of eye conditions before you are aware of any symptoms – many of which can be treated if found early enough. A sight test will show if you need to get glasses for the first time or change your current glasses. A sight test will also include a general health check that can pick up early signs of eye disease before you are aware of any symptoms. Some health conditions can affect the eyes such diabetes, macular degeneration and glaucoma Optometrists recommend that most people should get their eyes tested every two years. However, in some circumstances, they may recommend more frequent tests. Pap Test
A Pap test (or Pap smear) checks for cancers in the lower part of the uterus, called the cervix. The doctor uses a special small stick or brush to take a few cells from your cervix for the test. Starting at age 21 through age 29, women should have the test every three years. If you’re between 30 and 64, you should get a Pap test and human papillomavirus (HPV) test together every five years or a Pap test alone every three years. Colorectal Cancer Screening
Tests look for cancer in the colon or rectum by checking for blood or for –tissue growths called polyps. If you don’t have any extra cancer risks, you should start getting screened at age 50 and continue until you’re 75. There are different screening tests that may be right for you. Faecal occult blood tests (FOBT) should be done each year. Sigmoidoscopy, in which your doctor checks part of your colon with a lighted tube, plus FOBT should be done every five years. Colonoscopy, in which the doctor examines your entire colon with a lighted tube, should be done every 10 years.