 Senator Bala Mohammed  Bauchi State governor-elect, Bala Mohammed, has said the outgoing administration of Governor Muhammad Abubakar is planning to access loans from banks, engage in mass recruitment of teachers and has announced payment of N30,000 national minimum wage.He raised the alarm yesterday through his spokesman, Dr. Ladan Salihu, saying: “Part of the over N4 billion Paris loan refund received from the Federal Government currently warehoused in the SUBEB would soon be disbursed to cronies and phony companies for the renovation of schools.” He also alleged that his team has uncovered plans by officials of the outgoing government and some civil servants to award non-existent contracts and incur loans from commercial banks.Mohammed, who was elected under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), said he was aware of attempt to move state assets to unknown locations, but vowed to punish civil servants found culpable in the act.He said the state government under his watch would conduct a thorough capital inventory and forensic audit of all financial transactions. But in a swift reaction, the governor’s Media Adviser, Ali Ali said “this is usual fantastic claims of the PDP government that the outgoing government plans to implement the N30,000 new minimum pay and also recruit 8,000 teachers.” “These are falsehoods being peddled by the incoming government. It is clear that the half-truths and lies are the hallmarks of PDP. This latest misrepresentation is a clear testimony.“Until May 29, Governor Abubakar remains the chief executive of Bauchi State and reserves the right to hire or fire”. Ali said the issue of minimum wage is on the exclusive legislative list and it is a federal government matter. “As such, it is preposterous to suggest that Abubakar’s administration plans to implement what is legally impossible,” he said. However, Mohammed has inaugurated four committees for his transition with Senator Adamu Ibrahim Jumba as Chairman, Transition Committee, while Senator Abdul Ahmed Ningi heads the Inauguration Committee. A former director of the Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria (FRCN), Dr. Ladan Salihu, heads the Media Team, while Samaila Burga heads the Transition Secretariat. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .