Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari said the extended time it took the 8th National Assembly led by Senate President Bukola Saraki to pass the budget was regrettable. Buhari made the disclosure when he hosted state governors and senators-elect of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to a dinner at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, on Monday night. “So, that is why I’m appealing for your support. What happened in the last Senate and so on is regrettable because I still feel it shouldn’t take seven months to pass a budget. You have a very, very serious job ahead of you,” Buhari said. Nigeria’s 8th National Assembly led by Senate President Bukola Saraki has had a strained relationship with the Executive with regards to passing spending plans. President Muhammadu Buhari, since 2015 of his election, has presented budgets for successive years in November and December to the National Assembly. Buhari presented 2016 and 2018 budgets in November and presented the 2017 and 2019 budgets in December. The executive and legislature have blamed each other on who is responsible for the budget presentation delays. Buhari, who lamented the late passage of the 2019 budget, said he expected that national interests should be placed above personal interests. He, therefore, charged the 9th national assembly to learn from the undoings of the outgoing 8th senate to enable all arms of government and his administration achieve a common goal for the nation. “So, what I’m appealing is that any major decision you are going to take please reflect more on the country than yourself as a person – what effect will it have on the country,” Buhari said. “This is my fifth and last time of standing for an election – for that reason, I’ll like to leave something behind. And what I want to leave cannot be successfully done without your support.” Buhari promised to partner with the 9th National Assembly in promoting peace, stability and economic prosperity in the country. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .