Dr. DanAzumi Ibrahim, Director general of NOTAP Stakeholders in the Information and Communications Technology (ICT) have reiterated the need for the use of Nigerian software in the financial sector. They made this call at the ongoing stakeholder’s roundtable on the use of Nigerian software in the financial sector, with the theme: “Adoption and Development of Local Content Technology as Growth Driver for the Nigerian Economy”, holding in Lagos. Dr Dan Ibrahim Azumi, DG, National Office for Technology Acquisition and Promotion (NOTAP), speaking at the event said that their objective is to promote awareness for the development and utilization of local Technology Solutions in various sectors of the Nigerian economy. According to him, “our objectives are to promote awareness for the development and utilization of local Technology Solutions in various sectors of the Nigerian economy, to discuss the challenges confronting the local Technology Solution Providers, identify specific areas where NOTAP and NITDA can intervene to create an enabling environment to enhance local vendorship. “And also to identify companies with high demand for software Solutions developed in Nigeria, provide a platform for linking local software suppliers to end-users as an avenue to create and generate employment , income and wealth in Nigeria.” He decried the huge sums of money being remitted out of the country without the foreign ICT owners assisting local partners to develop its knowledge base, capacity and intelligence as required by the terms of the agreement entered into. He urged Nigerians not to be under any illusion that foreign firms are here for the development of our country, stressing that we need to be strategic to leverage on the available foreign technologies to ensure inclusive and sustainable growth of our country. Speaking earlier, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, minister of Science and Technology, said that the Federal Government of Nigeria is emphasising on local participation in the execution of government contracts so as improve local content in national socio-economic development. Dr Onu, who was represented by Prof. Gloria Elemo, Director General, Federal Institute of Industrial Research (FIIRO) said that the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) of the Federal Government of Nigeria led by President Muhammad Buhari is an developmental initiative focused on restoring growth, investing in people and building a globally competitive economy. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .