Canadian pop star, Justin Bieber may be going through a lot at the moment and unsure about when he will release his highly-anticipated fifth studio album but one thing he is sure about is his love for his wife, Hailey Baldwin. The 25-year old Grammy award-winning “Purpose” crooner made this explicitly clear in response to a social media user who alleged that he only got married to Baldwin to get back at his ex-girlfriend, Selena Gomez. The social media user troll wrote, “You are NOT in love with Hailey! You only married her to get back at SG plus Hailey sleeps with men like @shawnmendes for fame and she’s racist…” In response, Bieber stated that getting married as a way of getting back at an ex is the most foolish thing anyone would do. He wrote, “You are immature the fact that you have an account dedicated to dissing my wife and [it’s] absolutely absurd why would I dedicate my whole life to someone in marriage to get back and my ex, anyone who believes this is mean spirited or 10 years old or younger because the logical person doesn’t talk or think this way u should be ashamed of yourself really.” He added, “I absolutely loved and love Selena she will always hold a place in my heart, but I am head over heels in love with my wife and she is absolutely the BEST THING that has ever happened to me, period. The fact that you want to spend your day dedicating yourself to hate says a lot about you, and if this was some sick ploy to get my attention U are wrong on so many levels.” “I’ve seen multiple people say things like this and will never respond again to a message like this because I don’t like to even give it my energy but this is a reply to all immature sick people who send Hailey hurtful messages like ‘he always goes back to Selena’ or ‘Selena is better for him.’ YOU HAVE NO IDEA MY LIFE AND WHAT’S good for me!! Hailey is my Bride period if you don’t like that or support that that means you don’t support me and if you don’t support me you’re not a fan or a good person.” This is coming on the heels of Bieber taking to social media to say that he is not planning on going on tour soon because he can’t give fans the best of him and his family is the most important thing to him.