 [FILES] Players of Enugu Rangers  Etoile defeated Rangers 2-1 in the first game of the tie in Sousse at the weekend and the second leg is billed for the Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium on Sunday. As hosts of the home leg, Rangers are expected to take care of the Tunisian side’s movement in Nigeria, but officials of the club say Etoile du Sahel have been silent on their travel arrangements. Speaking on Sunday’s game, Rangers Media Officer, Norbert Okolie said the Flying Antelopes have not heard from the Tunisian side, adding they need to know the North Africans’ itinerary to arrange their local transportation and other logistics. “We are aware that North African sides like to do things their own way, but they should at least let us into their plans. “When Wydad of Morocco played Lobi Stars, they flew in by a chartered flight straight to Enugu. The same happened with USMA of Algeria, so we will not be surprised if Etoile elect to fly in to Enugu direct. But they should at least let us know, so that we will plan for their stay in Enugu.” Okolie revealed that Rangers returned from Tunisia on Wednesday morning and went into training for the game in the evening. “We are doing everything possible to win Sunday’s game and return to the top of our group. “The government and management of our team are doing everything possible to keep the side in good frame of mind for victory on Sunday,” he said. Meanwhile, Etoile du Sahel head coach, Roger Lemerre has revealed that his ambition is to guide the Tunisian giants to the CAF Confederation Cup knockout stages. The Jewel Coast bounced back to beat Enugu Rangers 2-1 on Sunday in Sousse for their first win at the group stage. The victory gave Etoile a lifeline and remain in contention for a place at the next round. “What mattered in this game were the points and we were successful in getting them today,” Lemerre said. “Despite having conceded first, we managed to come back which wasn’t easy. “We are fully satisfied because we are back in the race for qualification,” the Frenchman added. “The consecutive games we have been playing have taken a toll on the players which resulted in many injuries.” Etoile are looking to clinch their third Confederation Cup trophy this year.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .