Davido                                                                                                  Taylor                                                                                                  J. Cole It is now confirmed that Nigeria’s Davido is on the bill for this year’s Dreamville Festival put together by rapper J. Cole, in partnership with his own Dreamville Records and the Texas-based ScoreMore Shows. Scheduled for April 6, at the Dorothea Dix Park in Raleigh, North Carolina, which is roughly a one-hour drive from his hometown in Fayetteville, NC, the one-day music festival offers attendees a special celebration of local music, culture, food and art, along with a highly curated selection of music performers. Aside from J. Cole and Davido, the festival also parades other notable acts, including 21 Savage, 6LACK, Ari Lennox, Bas, Big Sean, Cozz, Earthgang, J.I.D, Lute, Nelly, Omen, Rapsody, SZA, Saba, Teyana Taylor and others. It would be recalled that J. Cole was forced to cancel the inaugural Dreamville Festival originally billed for September 15, due to the impending arrival of Hurricane Florence in the region.Announcing the cancelation, organisers said, “Due to safety concerns regarding dangerous weather, we are extremely saddened to announce today that the inaugural Dreamville Festival 2018 is being cancelled. “Our team has been working tirelessly with officials from the City of Raleigh, along with our State and Federal Partners, among others, to monitor the potential negative impact of Hurricane Florence. With the current weather-related information at hand, we have together decided to cancel this year’s event for the ultimate safety of both the local citizens and festival attendees.” J. Cole, who was obviously excited about the project, tweeted, “Mannn. Due to this Hurricane heading to NC, we have to cancel Dreamville Festival,” adding, “We’re working to get another date, but right now safety is most important. I appreciate everybody that was headed to rock with us. 30,000 + were expected. All tickets will be refunded. B safe.” Five months after, the team is back to work; ready to give fans the best during the festival. And with the inclusion of Davido on the lineup, guests are in for an exciting moment, as OBO is set to serve the best of Naija music.Born David Adedeji Adeleke on November 21, 1992, Davido is a Nigerian singer, songwriter, and record producer, who made his music debut as a member of the music group KB International. Davido rose to fame in 2011 with the release of Dami Duro, the second single from his debut studio album Omo Baba Olowo (2012). The album also contains six additional singles: Back When, Ekuro, Overseas, All of You, Gbon Gbon, and Feel Alright. In 2012, he won The Headies Award for Next Rated. Between 2013 and 2015, he released the hit singles Gobe, One of a Kind, Skelewu, Aye, Tchelete (Goodlife) featuring Mafikizolo, Naughty featuring DJ Arafat, Owo Ni Koko, The Sound and The Money featuring Olamide. In January 2016, Davido announced via Twitter that he signed a record deal with Sony Music. His announcement was met with mixed reactions, but the record label put out a press release to confirm the deal. A few months after signing with Sony, Davido founded the Davido Music Worldwide (DMW) record label. Dremo and Mayorkun are currently signed to the label. In July 2016, Davido signed a record deal with Sony’s RCA Records. He released the 5-track EP Son of Mercy in October 2016, supported by the singles Gbagbe Oshi, How Long and Coolest Kid in Africa. The EP features guest appearances from Simi, Tinashe and Nasty C.
He released five singles in 2017 after restructuring his contract with Sony, including If and Fall. The former generated worldwide social media activity, while the latter became the longest-charting Nigerian pop song in Billboard history. Indeed, the Nigerian music industry has exploded in recent times. The hyper activity on the scene has, no doubt, upstaged the days of yore when local TV and radio stations feed the public with foreign songs, especially from the US; a period when the craze for foreign songs, which most of us barely understood the lyrics or even make any sense out of them, were in vogue. Today, things have changed; Nigerian songs are making waves all over the world, with the artistes winning international awards for their works. Even American superstars have seen reasons to collaborate with our artistes –– good deal! 