Controversial talk show host, Wendy Williams has made a shocking confession during the last 15 minutes of her show, The Wendy Williams Show. The media personality broke down in tears as she revealed that she has been living in a sober home while battling her addictions. The 54-year-old made the revelation today during a live taping. Although she did not reveal how long she has been living in the sober home for addiction away from her family and also what type of addiction, she admitted that she has a sober coach that works with her 24/7. She said, “For some time now, and even today and beyond, I have been living in a sober house,” a tearful Williams began with only 15 minutes left in her live show. “When you see me come to work glammed up, right after the show I go across the street, I do my pilates… two hours a day I like to take care of my body. And, you know I’ve had a struggle with cocaine in my past. I never went to a place to get the treatment. I don’t know how. God was sitting on my shoulder and I just stopped… There are people in your family that might be struggling, maybe you, and I just want you to know more of the story, so this is my autobiographical story and I’m living it.” She continued, “After I go to pilates, I go to several meetings all around town in the tristate area, and I see my brothers and sisters caught up in their addiction, looking for help. They don’t care I’m Wendy, there’s no autographs — there’s nothing. It’s the brothers and the sisters caught up in the struggle. It’s been really interesting. Only Kevin [senior, her husband] and Kevin [junior, her son] have known about this. Not my parents, nobody, nobody knew, because I look so glamorous out here.” “After I finish my appointments from seeing my brothers and sisters, breaking bread, I am driven by my 24-hour sober coach back to a home that I live in here in the tristate with a bunch of smelly boys who’ve become my family. They hog the TV and watch soccer and we talk and read and talk and read and then I get bored with them. Doors locked by 10 PM, lights out by 10 PM, so I go to my room and I stare at the ceiling and I fall asleep to wake up to come back here and see you. So that, is my truth.” Williams went on to inform the public of her Hunter Foundation hotline. “Either you’re calling me crazy or the bravest woman you know — I don’t care,” she said. “If you or someone who knows, our Hunter Foundation just launched last week. We already have successfully placed 56 people in recovery centres around the country.” This is coming after Williams and her husband, Kevin Hunter announced the launch of the 888-5HUNTER hotline on Monday, March 11, to help those suffering from drug addiction and substance abuse, in connection with her family’s foundation The Hunter Foundation.  It would be recalled that Williams only recently returned to her show after a long hiatus due to health issues.