CP Wakili is still in charge of Kano police command, says spokesman
A divisional Police Officer (DPO) and three other policemen have been killed after unknown gunmen attacked a police station at Afuze community in Owan East Local Council of Edo State. The gunmen also attacked the office of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in the town, destroyed electoral materials and burnt down a police van in the premises.The Guardian learnt that the gunmen stormed the police station on Tuesday night and began shooting sporadically. They killed the policemen and other victims present during the attack.The officers killed in the attack were the DPO of the station, Superintendent of Police Tosimani Ojo; Sergeant Justina Aghomon, a pregnant woman, Inspector Sado Isaac and Corporal Glory David. A witness, Mr. Godwin Ikpekhia, said: “We only heard gunshots and nobody knew what actually happened until Wednesday morning. “The divisional police officer, alongside three other officers who were on duty, was killed on the spot inside the building.“The hoodlums didn’t just stop at that; they went to the INEC office and started shooting sporadically at policemen who were on duty there. “Election materials and a police van at the INEC office were burnt by the hoodlums.”The Edo Commissioner of Police, Mr. Muhammed Danmallam, who visited the scene, said investigation would commence immediately and that those responsible would be brought to book. Meanwhile, Kano State Police Command has refuted rumour trending on the purported transfer of Commissioner of Police (CP) Wakili Mohammad from the state.Unsubstantiated news of the CP’s removal broke out on social media few hours after the gubernatorial poll was declared inconclusive, a development that generated anxiety and shock in the ancient city. Reacting to the development yesterday, the Police Public Relations Officers (PPRO), Abdullahi Haruna Kiyawa, told The Guardian that the police boss in still fully in control of Kano.He described the rumour as imaginary and distractive being peddling by enemies of progress. The PPRO warned those spreading the fake news, saying that Wakili is not partisan, and will continue to maintain level playing ground for all political parties in Kano. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .