 Rema  This move by Mavin’s founder, Don Jazzy, is in response to the growing thirst for Nigerian music globally and also the company’s desire to eventually become a music powerhouse in Africa. D’Prince, who is Don Jazzy’s biological brother and one of the vibrant acts off the now defunct and legendary Mo’Hits crew, discovered the new artiste, Rema, an 18 year-old emerging artist, whose real name is Divine Ikubor. Rema grew up, lived and hustled in Benin City. As a young rapper in church and school, he knew from an early age of eleven that music was what he wanted to spend his life doing. He went on to perform on several stages in Benin City and created his own live band while still in school. His sound is unique and tilted towards Afrobeat, Trap and Alternative music. Speaking on his signing to Jonzing World, the energetic and colourful performer said, “It still feels like a dream. It is such a blessing for me to be chosen for something great, and given a platform as big as Mavin Global and team as supportive as Jonzing World to enable me achieve my career objectives in music. I am super excited about what the future holds.” Mavin Global, announcing its first imprint label deal, Jonzing World and in the same vein signing a new artiste under this imprint, demonstrates part of the label’s large-scale plan to infuse fresh talent into its roster, while extending its reach across and beyond Africa. This strategic move was made possible by the label’s multi-million dollar partnership with Kupanda Holdings, which would help strengthen the label’s core operations across A&R, touring, marketing, distribution, publishing and partnerships.“Rema is a formidable young artist: with his skill and versatility, he has a unique place in the future of afrobeats. At the same time, we’re excited to launch our first imprint deal with Jonzing World. This model will expand the number of ways the Mavin platform can support artists and entrepreneurship in Africa to grow together, at home and internationally,” said Don Jazzy, Mavin Global President. “When I first heard Rema’s work I knew this was an artist I wanted the entire world listening to; his talent and artistry are so far beyond his years. By collaborating with Mavin Global, Jonzing World will be able to discover and develop not just Rema but many more exceptional talents like him. This is only the beginning,” said D’Prince, Founder and CEO of Jonzing World.