DJ Cuppy Ahead of this year’s Gidi Culture Festival billed for March 20, the orgnaisers have announced the second wave of acts for the gig. Now in it’s 6th edition, the one-day music festival, which takes place at Landmark Beachfront Victoria Island, will feature Wande Coal, DJ Cuppy and Sarz, who will all be joining the already announced Patoranking, Niniola, Teni the entertainer, Moonchild Sanelly, DJ Neptune and more on the main stage. Wande Coal is ready to dominate his debut at Gidi Fest this Easter. Wande Coal offers a distinctive sound and a track record of releasing huge international hits. His collaborations include everyone from Wizkid, Burna Boy, and Patoranking – who also shares the stage at Gidi Culture Fest this year. DJ Cuppy, the Nigerian DJ and producer also join the bill this year. Representing a new generation of African women with truly global. She launched her music career in 2014 as the resident DJ for MTV Africa Music Awards and has since made a name for herself in the scene. Nigerian beat maker Sarz is another leader in the industry, whose unique and inventive approach has seen him produce tracks for the likes of Drake and Wizkid, as well as a host of street anthems for Tekno, Wande Coal, and Burna Boy. Being the man behind Come Closer and One Dance – the first song ever to rack up over a billion streams on Spotify – his credentials speak for him. Leading the movement for the progression of urban youth culture in Africa, Gidi Fest boasts a history of booking the biggest global stars including Wizkid, Davido, Diplo and Burna Boy – whilst providing a platform for the most exciting Next Gen artists, including for 2019: Gidi Fest and Eclipse Live Co-Founder Chin Okeke said, “We are excited by the sheer diversity of the acts we’re announcing this year, it’s going to be a hell of a show. 2019 will see a return to our roots of promoting the future of African music, whilst many returning acts who have grown in leaps and bounds since the last time they graced the Gidi Fest stage. Expect a beautifully curated experience with a big focus on the culture around the music.” The Lagos State Commissioner of Tourism, Arts and Culture, Mr. Steve Ayorinde said, “The Lagos State Government is happy to endorse and be associated with the Gidi Culture Festival for six consecutive years. The festival has bee consistent with aligning with the mandate of the state’s Ministry of Tourism, Arts, and Culture to use the musical arts and the creative energy of our teeming youths to further promote the image of our state as a prime destination and powerhouse of the creative economy.” Gidi Culture Fest offers an unrivaled opportunity to discover the culture and energy behind the music blowing up around the world right now – a place to experience the urban youth movement through the new school. Now in its 6th year, this is set to be the biggest yet and expects to share the future of African music with even more international visitors than ever before. The Gidi Tribe reaches beyond the shores of Nigeria, from Africans to diaspora in Europe, Caribbean and American with African heritage. Gidi Fest aims to promote Lagos as a destination and expose the stories that captivate music fans and explorers from everywhere. With an expected capacity of 10,000 fans and more experiential programming still to be revealed, the Gidi Tribe can expect something unforgettable this Easter weekend.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .