Popular Nollywood actress, Yvonne Jegede in a recent chat with Pulse has revealed details about her marital crisis. The screen star who got married to her now estranged husband, Olakunle Abounce Fawole disclosed that trouble started in their marriage three months after she got pregnant. She said, “We started having issues before the birth of Xavier. I think I was about two to three months pregnant when the issues came. Immediately the issues came, there was never a dull moment, it just kept going up and up and it got worse and it got worse and today here we are.” She added that it became obvious that their problems were irredeemable prompting her move out of their matrimonial home after a mutual agreement. She said, “Right now, we are not living together, and we are not living as husband and wife, we are not husband and wife anymore and I would say a mutual agreement to go our separate ways. It didn’t work out, it wasn’t working out.” The “Being Annabel” star also cleared the air about lingering doubts that her son, Xavier is not Abounce’s. She said the paternity of her son is not in question as Abounce knows that the child is 100% his. She said, “I don’t call him. I only reached out to him when I feel the need to because he knows Xavier is his son, he is 100% sure he’s his son. He’s been to the house twice after we got back to the country, he’s come to see his son twice and he has pictures with his son on his phone which I took so why he’s not posting them, maybe his personal reasons, maybe he’s not like me who is showing my joy to the world, I don’t know but is that enough to give me a name? no, you don’t give me a name like that, common, that is not right, people tried to bully me or make dry joke over this, about my life, would you be happy if I were your sister but anyways, I am here, I am strong and will be strong for my son. I have morals to set for him and what the world is about.” She made it known, however, that her marriage to the former rapper and actor was worth it for the months it lasted. According to her, the times they shared together as a couple were nice and sweet so she wouldn’t trample on those times.