 Religion  Christ’s Mission to the earth is not to come to Calvary to lay His life down on a cross. No, Christ’s Mission to earth means much more! For did Christ not Himself declare: “Think not that I am come to send peace on earth: I come not to send peace, but a sword. For I am come to set a man at variance against his father, and the daughter against her mother, and the daughter in law against her mother in law.” (Matt 10: 34-35). But talking of Jesus Christ, did Christ not use His common-sense to propagate His teachings. He did this when He dealt decisively with the ever calculating Scribes and Pharisees when these tried to “entrap Him in His speech”? The Bible records: Read More: Common-sense in religion “Then went the Pharisees, and took counsel how they might entangle him in his talk. And they sent out unto him their disciples with the Herodians saying, Master, we know that thou art true, and teachest the way of God in truth, neither carest thou for any man: for thou regardest not the person of men. Tell us therefore, What thinkest thou? Is it lawful to give tribute unto Caesar, or not? But Jesus “perceived their wickedness, and said, Why tempt ye me, ye hypocrites? Shew me the tribute money. And they brought unto him a penny. And he saith unto them, Whose is this image and superscription? They say unto him, Caesar’s.Then saith he unto them, Render therefore unto Caesar the things which are Caesar’s; and unto God the things that are God’s. When they had heard these words, they marveled, and left him, and went their way.” (Matt 22 : 15- 22). Did Christ not also display common-sense when he used everyday regular examples in portraying his ideas. Did Christ not say: “For which of you intending to build a tower, sitteth not down first, and counteth the cost, whether he have sufficient to finish it? Lest haply, after he hath laid the foundation, and is not able to finish it, all that behold it begin to mock him, Saying, This man began to build, and was not able to finish.” Did Christ not say: “Or which king, going to make war against another king, sittest not down first, and consulteth whether he be able with ten thousand to meet him that cometh against him with twenty thousand? Or else, while the other is yet a great way off, he sendeth an embassage, and desireth conditions of peace.” (Luke 14 : 28-32). But at the present time it is possible (from a written compilation of lectures, titled “The Grail Message, In the Light of Truth”) to learn about the correct attitude that the Christian should assume towards understanding of the actual Mission and Purpose of Jesus Christ’s life. The Grail Message is a common-sense treatise written by an Austrian “Truth- Bringer” whose civil names were Oscar Ernst Bernhardt, but who was widely known by his pen name “Abd ru shin” (Abd ru shin, being an Arabic terminology translated to mean “Son of the Holy Spirit”). Throughout Abd ru shin’s 168 lecture Grail Message, he advances ground-breaking revelations about the actual purpose and Mission of Jesus Christ’s life on earth. Abd ru shin writes: “With my words I lead to God and also to Jesus! However, in a more vital way than has been known in the past, and not as people have trimmed it through their propensity for spiritual comfort! Jesus shall not be given up as the Son of God through my Message! He must now be recognised as such all the more, but not as “the servant and slave of a decayed humanity in order to carry their burden of guilt, or to redeem it so that they may have it easier. The meaning and purpose of the Message from the Light through me in the fulfillment of God’s All-Holy Will is the necessary extension of the knowledge for mankind.” (Believers Merely Out of Habit, pgs 917-918 excerpted, The Grail Message of Abd ru shin).
Abd ru shin now clarifies about the actual significance of Christ’s life on earth, and his crucifixion, when he states: “At the death of Christ the veil which shut out the Holy of Holies from mankind was rent in twain. This happening is taken as a symbol that the separation between Divinity and mankind ceased at the moment of the Saviour’s sacrifice on the cross, and that direct communication was established in its stead. However, this interpretation is wrong! Through His crucifixion men rejected the Son of God as their expected Messiah, and this made the separation all the greater! This is “the exact contrary to the existing explanations, which express nothing but a great presumption on the part of the human spirit! Neither was the death on the “cross a necessary sacrifice, but a murder, a dastardly crime! It was not His death on the cross that could and should bring redemption, but the Truth He gave mankind in His Word! His violent death, in the form at the time used by the Roman’s to execute people, was not in itself the redemption, nor did it bring redemption. It atoned for none of mankind’s guilt, liberated them from nothing, but burdened them still more with a dastardly murder.” (The Crucifixion of The Son of God and The Lord’s Supper, pgs.434 – 435 excerpted, The Grail Message of Abd ru shin). Concluded • Aluko wrote from Lagos  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .