 The Managing Director of Rite Foods manufacturers of Bigi Drinks Mr. Saleem Adegunwa  Managing Director, Rite Foods Limited, Seleem Adegunwa, said that the company wants to use IWD as a time to reflect on progress made, call for change and celebrate acts of courage and determination by ordinary women, who have played an extraordinary role in the history of the country and their communities. To this end, Adegunwa said, Rite Foods Limited is specially celebrating women in two categories. The first is targeted at Rite Foods followers on social media platforms including consumers of Bigi products and individuals interested in women empowerment, international women’s rights, women rights in Nigeria and IWD 2019. The target audience for this campaign cuts across a vast number of people. The second arm of this campaign, he said, which is the main event, is targeted at women in the cocktail business in the country, specifically the Female Mixologist Association of Nigeria. These female vendors, who have pre-registered during the first wing of the second arm of the campaign, will display their mixology skills to attendees. Adegunwa, who stated that the event is to promote the feminine gender and create a platform highlighting the strength of a woman, their survival in the male dominated society, added that it provides a platform where women can interact, educate and pitch ideas to each other; as well as engage and have a personal relationship with the brand’s female consumers. He added that March 30th is the grand finale in Lagos. The managing director said this would help improve brand visibility and awareness to prospective and existing consumers and ensure the consumers its unique ideas, activities and engagement to commemorate the International Women’s Day boost gender parity issues. Adegunwa lamented that women and girls who represent half of the world’s population are still subjected to all sorts of gender discriminative practices in Nigeria despite the country’s membership of the United Nations. He said: “Unfortunately, there is still a long way to go in achieving satisfactory equality of rights and opportunities between men and women. Therefore, it is of paramount importance to think equal, build smart and innovate for change, ending the multiple forms of gender violence and secure equal access to economic resources and participation in political life.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .