 Minister of Science and Technology, Ogbonnaya Onu  The Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, explained that the methanol fuel technology would also eliminate the problem of gas flaring while also helping to add value to the huge natural gas resources of the nation. The Minister added that the large component of methane in natural gas that produces methanol can be used in various sectors of the economy. Onu at a consultative meeting with oil and gas stakeholders to present the report of the technical committee on the methanol fuel technology implementation programme in Lagos, said deploying the use of methanol fuel technology, would also help reduce the demand for fuel and diesel in most of the countries productive sectors. In his words: “We are going to gain about 15 per cent and if we substitute 15 per cent of PMS with methanol, then we are going to have 15 per cent reduction in the price of that 15 per cent. If we move it up like other countries in the world using methanol, there will be a very significant reduction in the use of fuel or diesel,” he said.He noted that Nigeria still flares a lot of the natural gas it produces, adding that World Bank data show that Nigeria accounts for about 12.5 per cent of the world’s total gas flaring. “I expect that in the next few weeks, members of the Technical Committee working in collaboration with the stakeholders will realize the implementation of methanol and gasoline alternative blends starting with blends of up to 15 per cent methanol which requires virtually no modification to the existing car infrastructure. “A full conversion of diesel vehicles to 100 per cent methanol and utilization of methanol for generation of electricity in power plants will help to lower costs, while staying within the requirements of clean air international laws.”He also added that the use of methanol as a blend with gasoline will help to reduce cost, guarantee a more environmentally friendly atmosphere and reduce gas flaring activities in the country. Earlier, the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, said the deployment of bio-fuel technology by the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology is a major component of the country’s renewable energy development, pointing out that the deployment of bio-fuel is the level of employment generation expected along the fuel production and consumption value chains in agriculture, environment and technology sectors of the economy. “Furthermore, the interconnected energy production system will provide savings, both in capacity and fuel cost at the same time ensuring reliability and continuity of power supply cum transportation for the achievement of the overall economy.The Director General and Chief Executive Officer, Federal Institute of Industrial Research Oshodi (FIIRO), Prof Gloria Elemo, stated that efficient transportation and electricity generation are two key indicators and drivers of a nation’s economy, adding that science, technology and innovation are strategic players in actualising both. She added that oil and gas may have increased the country’s earnings but a diversified economy through the sourcing and implementation of alternative means of efficient transportation and electricity generation in Nigeria is truly the way to go.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .