 The Executive Director of JAIZ Charity Development Foundation Centre, Imam Abdulahi Shuaib; Deputy Rector of Yaba College of Technology, Titilayo Ukabam; one of the graduands and the Director of the centre, Dr. Ibrahim Abdul, during Flexible Skill Development Centre graduation ceremony in Lagos.  The programme sponsored by Jaiz Charity Development Center trained 82 young Nigerians on vegetable farming, video camera operation and editing.Speaking during the graduation ceremony, the Executive Director of JAIZ Charity Development Foundation Centre, Imam Abdulahi Shuaib said the bank is set up to promote non-interest banking in Nigeria and part of the objective is to empower Nigerians. “We sponsor the college programme due to their request in line with our focus area to assist Nigerians who are committed and have passion for skills.He advised beneficiaries to ensure that they maximize what they are taught during the training.“We have no doubt in our minds that we are all set to open a new page and to do something very positive for ourselves, immediate families, the nation as a whole. “Always have positive mindset, what you are doing today may look so small, but I want to assure you that as small as it is today, you have acquired the required skill. You need to develop this required skill, after developing it, actualise it, so that the doubting Thomases will see that it is not just a theoretical exercise but practical. The sustainability of the whole exercise will determine the next stage we want for ourselves not just as an entrepreneur, but also to be a mentor and a couch for those who have been sitting on the fence or those that felt it was just a mere talk at the starting point. They will eventually come back and ask how you did it,” he said. The Deputy Rector of Yaba College of Technology, Titilayo Ukabam said the aim of creating the centre includes the development and teaching of non-formal courses in the college as part of community service, which will make people in the environment to acquire skills for sustainable livelihood. She commended the Rector of the school for his encouragement for the programme. “I remembered during the opening ceremony of the programme, there was a lot of encouragement from the Rector and from all that was present at the programme that we should start something and here we are today.”Ukabam advised the graduands of the center to put whatever they learn into practice.”“ The only way by which you can actualise what you have been taught here is by putting them into practice. If you delay setting up your skill, there is tendency that you will not put them into practice”. She further commended the student for completing the course. “ I admire your determination to finish the course because so many will start and they will not complete it. You have indeed acquired the skill to stand on your own and keep on growing while contributing to your society in addition to increasing your economy base without waiting for anybody or family before you feed yourself. You have achieved the end of the goal by being self-sustaining which will make others to emulate you.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .