 (FILES) In this file photo taken on March 12, 2019 an image of a Boeing 737 MAX 8 is pictured on the exterior of the Boeing Renton Factory in Renton, Washington. – A fix to the anti-stall system suspected in October’s Lion Air Boeing 737 MAX 8 that killed 189 people in Indonesia is ready to roll out, industry sources told AFP on March 23, 2019. Boeing was due to present the patch to officials and pilots of US airlines American, SouthWest and United in Renton, Washington state, where the craft is assembled, the sources said. This upgrade has yet to be approved by the Federal Aviation Agency, one of the authorities that grounded the 737 MAX after two deadly crashes in five months. (Photo by Jason Redmond / AFP)  The aviation giant, which has been under fire and its flagship narrow-body planes grounded since March 13, tested the system upgrade on Monday, two days after pilots from American Airlines did simulation flights in Renton, Washington, the sources said. Boeing needs authorization from the Federal Aviation Administration before the MAX can return to service. But the company still has not submitted its proposed software patch to the FAA, a government source told AFP. The aircraft was grounded following two deadly accidents involving Ethiopian Airlines earlier this month and Lion Air in October which killed 346 people. Engineers have been focusing on addressing problems with the MCAS system, a stall prevention system designed to point the nose of the 737 MAX 8 downward if it is in danger of stalling, or losing lift. The system has been criticized since it can malfunction, and make it difficult for pilots to control the aircraft. Both of the recent crashes occurred moments after takeoff. Read More: Boeing tests new software for embattled B737Max planes, meets customers The MCAS, or Maneuvering Characteristics Augmentation System, was installed in the MAX because they are heavier than in the previous version of the 737. A Boeing spokesperson declined to comment, but said the company is in regular contact with regulators. Boeing remains under intense pressure following the two crashes, which will be the subject of a Senate hearing Wednesday. Top US transportation officials are expected to face questions from lawmakers on the FAA’s certification of the 737 MAX and whether regulators have become too cozy with the company, and fast-tracked some approvals.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .