 [FILE PHOTO] Former Anambra State governor Peter Obi, former Nigerian vice president and the presidential candidate of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party Atiku Abubakar and the director-general of his campaign organisation and former governor of Ogun State Gbenga Daniel on Friday, October 12, 2018. PHOTO: ATIKU CAMPAIGN ORGANISATION  “I have directed all our Structures statewide to cast all their votes on Saturday for Prince Dapo Abiodun, another bona fide Remo son despite current party differences,” said Daniel in a statement on Thursday. “I, therefore, enjoin all to please go and cast your vote on Saturday for Dapo Abiodun in the overall interest of our people,” he added. Daniel, a two-term governor of the state from 2003-2011, said he endorsed the APC candidate because of the failure of Ladi Adebutu to secure the ticket of the People’s Democratic Party. A Federal High Court in Abeokuta affirmed Kasahmu Buruji’s candidature on Wednesday. “I have also been very busy supporting the ambition of the son of our great philanthropist in Remoland to become the next governor of our dear state,” Daniel said. “You, however, would have become aware of the court decision yesterday which did not favour him.” Adebutu had filed a suit to challenge the nomination of Kashamu as the governorship candidate of the PDP in Ogun state after two parallel primaries were conducted. Kashamu-backed PDP faction in Ogun State moved against the pleas of the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) which submitted Adebutu’s name to the Independent National Electoral Commission as the party’s flag-bearer in its primaries it organised. After several court orders and rulings, Kashamu became the governorship candidate on the orders of the court, while Adebutu backed by the NWC was dropped. Abiodun will face a stiff challenge from Kashamu of the PDP, and Akinlade Adekunle of the Allied Peoples Movement, backed by the governor of the state Ibikunle Amosun. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .