Johnny Depp is getting all the support he needs from the world right now after reportedly producing 87 videos to prove his innocence. Since 2016, Johny Depp, was in the eyes of many being an assaulter after his ex-wife, Amber Heard, accused him physically violating her causing the world to turn their attention away from the “Aquaman” star to the “Pirates of the Carribean” star. Only last year, Heard who described herself as “a public figure representing domestic violence” had said that she was receiving death threats and insisted that he threw a phone at her during a physical attack in May 21, 2016. “I had the rare vantage point of seeing, in real time, how institutions protect men accused of abuse,” Heard said in the “I spoke up against sexual violence — and faced our culture’s wrath. That has to change,” she told Washington Post in December, 2018. On the other hand, Ms. Heard, Depp’s lawyers claim, used the #MeToo platform to get the world by her side. “Ms. Heard also knew that her elaborate hoax worked: As a result of her false allegations against Mr. Depp, Ms. Heard became a darling of the #MeToo movement, was the first actress named a Human Rights Champion of the United Nations Human Rights Office, was appointed ambassador on women’s rights at the American Civil Liberties Union, and was hired by L’Oreal Paris as its global spokesperson,” the 30-page lawsuit states. According to the Blast, his legal team have said that four employees and one former neighbour allege that there were no injuries on her on the day of the incident (May 21) where she claims he threw a phone at her. Asides this, all 87 videos prove their testimony true. In another lead, Trinity Esparza, owner of the concierge services company who was contacted to their building, claims that she saw an injury six days after the incident while one of their ex-neighbours, Issac Baruch, explained that he was shocked when he saw marks on May 27 during her court appearance where she sought to gain a temporary restraining order from him. According to Female First, he was warned by her friends but still went ahead. She said, “Whenever my old friends meet someone i’m involved with romantically, they immediately warn them4, ‘She may look refined , but when she’s angry, she can go trailer park really fast.” Meanwhile, Heard’s lawyer, Eric George, has described this as trying to silence her, “This frivolous action is just the latest of Johnny Depp’s repeated efforts to silence Amber Heard. She will not be silenced. Mr. Depp’s actions prove he is unable to accept the truth of his ongoing abusive behavior. But while he appears hell-bent on achieving self-destruction, we will prevail in defeating this groundless lawsuit and ending the continued vile harassment of my client by Mr. Depp and his legal team.” Depp has since filed a defamation suit of $50 million against her for her “elaborate hoax” and insinuated that she had a relationship with Elon Musk.  