The Executive Secretary, NSC, Hassan Bello The huge deficit in the Nigerian transport logistics services has been identified as a clog in wheel of the Federal Government’s economic diversification agenda. The Executive Secretary, Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC), Hassan Bello, who decried the deficit in the logistics sub-sector, said it has also hindered smooth flow of trade in the country. Bello, who spoke during his induction as a Chartered Fellow, Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport (CILT), said: “Apart from the issues of access to finance and market, I think getting our logistics right is one of the things we should concentrate on. If we get our logistics right, I think it will be pertinent to know that we are already on the part of development. Our economy will be galvanised, our economy will be diversified, and we will have clusters of industries and employment for our people.” He continued: “A robust logistics sector will generate jobs and grow the economy and inclusiveness, and that’s why it is important that apart from the issues of access to finance and market. I think to get our logistics right is one of the things we should concentrate. “Your institute is not for capacity building but as an agent of change to ensure that Nigeria gets its logistics right to cut the cost of transportation, which is high, because if we look at cost of production, transport will constitute larger percentage and we should not tolerate this. With efficient logistics chain, we will be able to cut this to the barest minimum. Logistics is a science that is indispensable to the development of this country,” he noted. While expressing appreciation to CILT for the recognition, Bello pledged the Council’s collaboration with the Institute on its Truck Transit Park and Inland Dry Port projects, and would also support and encourage its staff to participate in the capacity building programmes of CILT. According to him, the inland dry port is a logistics centre that must be properly harnessed and turned into export centre. President of CILT Nigeria, Ibrahim Jubril, noted the giant strides recorded by the Nigerian Shippers’ Council in protecting the interest of shippers, and its resolve to reduce the cost of shipping as well as the promotion of the Truck Transit Park (TTP). Jubril expressed optimism that the NSC, and indeed all sectors of the logistics and transport industry, would experience new trade dimension when Nigeria signs on to the Africa Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA). He said: “We have outlined an implant programme on how concerned agencies can fully be abreast of the functionality of the AfCFTA, and how greater advantages can be taken to boost domestic trade volumes through greater involvement of shippers in formal trade, as opposed to informal trades that are often not captured in our GDP calculations.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .