 Scrabble board  The scrabble league would also be holding in other states till September. According to the organisers, the MGI Scrabble Premier League will be the first ever of its kind to be orgnised in Nigeria, where teams made up of seven players each will battle for honours.  Teams to compete in the league include Air Poppers, Olowoyeye Predators, Brainaics, Phoenix, The Bulldozers, Hurricanes, Lekki Bombers, Blazers, FRSC Roadies, Team Supreme, Tekana Drones and Gracious Pickers. They will be up against one another across four weekends where a total of 55 games will be played in a round robin format. The Golfview Hotel and Suites Ikeja, Lagos will host the Matchday 1 on Saturday March 16, while Stonehenge Hotel in Abuja will welcome the scrabble community as well as lovers of the sport to Matchday 2 on May 18. Shell Club in Port Harcourt, Rivers State will be the venue for Matchday 3 on July 13. Lagos will again, be the focus as teams will converge at Lilygate Hotel, Lekki for Matchday 4 and 5 proceedings, where the winner of the star prize of N1million will be known. Meanwhile, Nigeria Volleyball League Management Company (LMC), has announced that March 31 will be the deadline for clubs to submit their licensing documents for the 2019 National Volleyball League session. The Secretary General of the LMC, Adamu Maikano said that the information was to enable clubs register for the upcoming league early enough for the body to put logistics in place ahead of the league. He said the extension of the deadline to the end of the month was due to the general elections held across the 36 states including the FCT. He also called on team nominated for the Zone 3 Club Championship to send in their registration forms as soon as possible for adequate formalities to be put in place. In another development, the National U-21 male and female Beach volleyball teams have intensified preparations for the Confederation of Africa Volleyball Championship (CAVB), taking place in Cape Verde from March 20 to 24. Nigeria female Beach volleyball team placed first while their male counterpart emerged third in the qualifiers, which took place in Ghana. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .