Nigeria President Muhammadu Buhari Friday assured Nigerians that the appointment of political office holders in his second term will be based on merit and will help the promotion of peaceful co-existence among citizens. Buhari gave the assurance when he received the leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) led by Samson Ayokunle on their congratulatory visit to the Aso Villa, Abuja. “In the area of allocation of political offices, our focus will be on merit and national spread such that every part of Nigeria will have a sense of belonging,” Buhari said in a statement by presidential spokesman Femi Adesina. Buhari, who promised to leave the country better than he met it in 2015, said his re-election expresses the trust Nigerians have in the present leadership in the country. The president affirmed that his administration will continue to address important national challenges including security, economy and corruption. “We remain resolute in the fight against terrorism and insurgency, and efforts to bring back all those in captivity and other victims of kidnappings will be intensified,” Buhari said. Buhari promised the Christian leaders that his administration “will continue to strive for peaceful co-existence among all Nigerians irrespective of their religious beliefs.” He pledged to continue supporting several programmes anchored by the Nigeria Inter-Religious Council (NIREC), geared towards peace, tolerance, unity and harmony in our country. In his congratulatory message, the CAN president prayed God to grant President Buhari ‘‘everything it takes to perform hundred times better than’’ his first term, stressing that the organisation had the success of this administration at heart.” Rev Ayokunle welcomed the President’s pledge to run an inclusive government in a speech shortly after his re-election, noting that the gesture would give all in the country a sense of belonging. The leadership of the Christian body in Nigeria also called for ethnic and religious balance in the selection of leadership of the ninth National Assembly. The CAN leader appealed to Buhari to ensure efforts are intensified to free Leah Sharibu, other Chibok girls and Nigerians in captivity of insurgents. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .