Hoodlums in Bauchi went on rampage during a political victory rally leaving several innocent residents injured including a 19-year old boy whose ear was cut off. The victim, Muhammad Harisu on Wednesday lost his left ear as a result of an attack by suspected political thugs during a rally organised by supporters of All Progressive Congress (APC) in the State capital to celebrate their victory in the last Presidential and National Assembly election. Harisu said he was outside his house to witness the rally when the suspected thugs went on a rampage and stabbed people who came their way without obstructing them. He narrated that: “Four of the hoodlums approached me and brought out machete, they stabbed different parts of my body including my left ear. I tried to escape but all to no avail as they had already injured me. I rushed to a nearby chemist where the wounds were covered with bandage to stop the bleeding. “I was rushed to Tashan Babiye Hospital by police where the wounded ear was further treated. Though I can hear with that ear but it was not very clear and I feel severe pain “. Meanwhile, the Police Spokesperson of the State Command, DSP Kamal Datti Abubakar confirmed that: “About 4pm on that day, the Command received a report that, while some members of the public are celebrating the victory of their political parties in the just concluded Presidential and National Assembly election in Bauchi metropolis, some group of youths suspected to be ‘Sara Suka’ thugs went on rampage attacking them with machetes and sticks.” He said the Command mobilised its operatives to those areas and curtailed the situation. He, however, explained that during the incident, three innocent people were confirmed injured who were taken to the hospital by the police for treatment and were discharged. He added that the case was under investigation and so far four suspects were arrested in connection with case. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .