 Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel ollecting certificate of return. Photo/Twitter/MrUdomEmmanuel  The service with the theme: ‘The Dangers of Ingratitude’ was organised by the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN). Speaking at the event, which was held at the Godswill Akpabio’s Stadium, Uyo, Emmanuel described the victory as the “manifestation of God’s power over man.” He said: “The battle was not against flesh and blood but against principalities and powers in high places. The battle was 100 percent spiritual that churches through the umbrella of CAN prayed for God to intervene and show mercy. “If today had not been like this, I do not know where the place of the churches would have been. God used the victory to prove Himself,
that He is the Almighty God. He used it to defend the church and His name because at a point, it seemed as if we all were overwhelmed but God raised His standard above man. “I want to declare here that as elected people, we pledged that we would continue to serve Him beyond all immeasurable doubts. We
will not place our individual interests above the interest of a common man in the state.” He also reassured the people the government would use every resource available to develop the state and its people. PDP National Chairman, Uche Secondus, said the entire Niger Delta region was taken over by the military during the elections,  “but God stood by us and delivered all the Niger Delta states and other states to the party”. In his homely, Bishop David Oyedepo, who spoke on the importance of giving gratitude to God, lauded the people of Akwa Ibom for
recognising God by setting aside the day to revere His mercy and love. He assured the people that God would not be unmindful of their hearts of praises and worships unto His name, and would bless them the more as well as make Akwa Ibom a destination of choice for investors. Those that attended the special thanksgiving service included: Rev. Uma Ukpai of Uma Ukpai Evangelical Outreach, Pastor Paul Enenche of
Dunamis International Church, Bishop David Oyedepo of Winners Chapels, Rev. Ntia Ntia of Full Life Christian Church and Arch Bishop Ndueso Ekwere of Qua Iboe, who is the state chairman of CAN among others. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .