 Edema Fuludu  A member of Tunisia ’94 Super Eagles winning team, Edema Fuludu is at ‘war’ with another ex-international and member of the Atlanta ’96 Olympics soccer gold medalist, Victor Ikpeba in the race for the chairmanship of DFA. Others who are said to be eying the position are Mr. Ken Nwanbochi, Mr. Lucky Sunday and Mr. Sam Sodje. They are battling to replace former Super Eagles captain, Austin Jay Jay Okocha, who resigned midway into his administration.The Guardian learnt yesterday that moves by the NFF chairman of chairmen, Mallam Ibrahim Musa Gusau and another official of the federation, Onoja Jushua ESQ, to resolve the issue on Thursday was unsuccessful. Gusau had written to the warring parties in the DFA earlier this week for the ‘peace’ meeting at the Patrick Okpomo Football House in Asaba. He had assured that their coming to Asaba would bring a lasting solution to the lingering crisis in DFA, but a source close to Fuludu told The Guardian yesterday that Gusau allegedly danced to the tune of the chairman of Delta Sports Commission, Tony Okowa, who is bent on conducting the DFA elections. “The NFF had made it clear before now that the Delta Sports Commission had no business conducting elections into the DFA. We were shocked with the way Gusau was mediating into the crisis because his body language clearly shows that the Delta Sports Commission boss (Okowa) has compromised him. They just want to push Fuludu out at all cost, but they won’t succeed,” the source stated. It was learnt that Gusau has fixed another meeting after the governorship elections. Efforts to speak with Gusau yesterday were unsuccessful.It would be recall that Fuludu, who has been on acting capacity since Okocha left, feels he has what it takes to turn Delta State football around for good. Ikpeba, on the other hand, feels he is the right man for the job, having served as a member of the State FA for some years now.However, many stakeholders in Delta football believe that the position of Delta FA chairman should be given to someone who is resident in the state since the era of ‘Okocha calling the shot from Lagos’ did not do Delta football any good.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .