 Buhari  The president in a statement signed by his special adviser on media and publicity, Femi Adesina, yesterday, commiserated with the government and people of Anambra over the sad incident, urging hospitals to give the survivors effective medical attention. Similarly, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) vice presidential candidate in the last general elections, Peter Obi, has commiserated with the government and people of Lagos State on the collapse of a three-storey building which claimed over 10 lives. Obi, through a release by his media aide, Valentine Obienyem, yesterday in Awka,  also condoled with the government and people of Anambra, where he reigned as governor for eight years, over the Onitsha tragedy. Also, Oyo State governor, Abiola Ajimobi, has expressed deep sorrow over the building collapse in Lagos. In a statement by his Special Adviser on Communication and Strategy, Bolaji Tunji, the governor said he was saddened by the lives lost in the unfortunate incident and the pains it inflicted on families. He also commiserated with the government and people of Lagos over the incident, while enjoining Governor Akinwunmi Ambode to ensure that “those whose actions or inactions contributed to the tragedy do not escape appropriate punishment.” Meanwhile, Kaduna State government has debunked rumours that Governor Nasir el-Rufai was involved in a motor accident. His Senior Special Adviser on Media and Communication, Muyiwa Adekeye, denied the story in a tweet  yesterday. There were rumours on Wednesday night that Governor el-Rufai was involved in an accident, which claimed the life of his driver. The governor, on his Facebook page, however, fingered the PDP as the mastermind of the rumour. When journalists made inquiries at the Government House, a staff said: “The governor has travelled overseas. There is nothing like governor involvment in an accident on his way from Abuja. The rumour is from those who don’t wish His Excellency well.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .