A 25-year old man, Ajibade Olumuyiwa, has been arrested by detectives of Ogun State Police Command for allegedly killing one Olakitan Balogun whom he alleged was having a secret affair with his wife. The suspect was arrested at about 1.45 am on March 17, 2019, following a distress call received by the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) Ajuwon division from residents of Doland estate that a man has murdered his wife’s concubine right inside his house. According to the police spokesman, Abimbola Oyeyemi, on the receipt of the distress call, the DPO CSP Afolabi Kazeem led his detectives to the scene where the suspect was promptly arrested. The police spokesman explained that Olumuyiwa met the deceased right inside the house with his wife at about 12:30 midnight on a fateful day. This infuriated him and he started beating the man and hit his head against the wall leading to the death of the victim. Titilayo Olayiwola, who was accused of having an affair with the dead man, denied having any relationship with the deceased. She explained that the suspect has abandoned her in the house for the past 8 months with an instruction to the gateman to be monitoring her and give him information if he sights her with any man. Olayiwola stated that the victim was a cobbler living in the area. Narrating the incidence, she said the deceased’s girlfriend came to pay him a visit and since he is not living alone, he decided to bring the girl to a room in the house due to his closeness to the family. But as soon as the gateman saw him, he alerted the husband who rushed to the house and descended heavily on the deceased without listening to any explanation from her and the girlfriend to the victim. The police said the body of the deceased has been deposited at the general hospital mortuary for post mortem examination. Meanwhile, the commissioner of police CP Ahmed Iliyasu has ordered the immediate transfer of the case to the homicide section of the state criminal investigation and intelligence department for discreet investigation and prosecution of the case. The CP also warned that the command would not hesitate to deal decisively with anybody taking laws into his or her own hands for whatever reason. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .