Ex-porn star turned sports commentator, Mia Khalifa is engaged to longtime boyfriend Chef Robert Sandberg, and he proposed to her in a very special way in Chicago. Apparently, Robert Sandberg hid the ring in a bowl of dried ingredients and Mia almost ate the ring with the ‘new serving’ but thankfully Sandberg was on ground to warn her, and he proposed to her on the spot. She said YES. Sharing the news on his Instagram page, Sandberg wrote;
We went to Chicago this weekend and had a wonderful dinner at Smyth. I proposed to @miakhalifa and she said YES!
 The ring was hidden in a bowl of dried ingredients and came out as a “new serving”. Mia was to curious and to eager to taste so she started to eat the inedible ingredients.
 I told her not do it and then I put the ring on the finger. I love you so much   We went to Chicago this weekend and had a wonderful dinner at Smyth. I proposed to @miakhalifa and she said YES!  The ring was hidden in a bowl of dried ingredients and came out as a “new serving”. Mia was to curious and to eager to taste so she started to eat the inedible ingredients. I told her not do it and then I put the ring on the finger.  I love you so much Thank you @chefjohnshields and team for a really good night and for making this happen.  #happydays A post shared by  Robert Sandberg (@robertsandberg) on Mar 14, 2019 at 9:59am PDT  Mia Khalifa also confirmed the news on her page as she shared adorable photos of the couple, writing;
Thank you a million times over for the entire team at @smythchicago for helping @robertsandberg propose ♥ this trip and dinner was supposed to celebrate him getting his visa! Robert has planted the seed so deep in my mind for so long that he hates restaurant proposals so I never, EVER, saw this coming. I love y’all so much! Thank you!   Thank you a million times over for the entire team at @smythchicago for helping @robertsandberg propose ♥ this trip and dinner was supposed to celebrate him getting his visa! Robert has planted the seed so deep in my mind for so long that he hates restaurant proposals so I never, EVER, saw this coming. I love y’all so much! Thank you! @smythchicago @chefjohnshields @officialchrisgerber @richieribando @povdejackee #StockholmSyndrome A post shared by  Mia K. (@miakhalifa) on Mar 14, 2019 at 10:04am PDT 