 Listen to music. Photo: Medium  To get, perhaps, the clearest picture of which songs were the biggest in 2018, we combed through 5,000+ songs released last year. We then compared their numbers on streaming platforms like Music+, YouTube and Spotify and compiled a list of the top 10 most streamed Nigerian songs of 2018. Here they are: 10. “One Ticket” – Kizz Daniel (ft. Davido) [Producer(s): Major Bangz]
Up until 2018, Kizz Daniel was prohibited from collaborating with artists outside of his record label. G-Worldwide had an anti-collaboration policy. While it made business sense, the policy robbed the public of the chance to listen to records of the caliber of “One Ticket”. Now out of his deal, Kizz will be hoping to make bigger songs with even bigger artists. 9. “Ye” – Burna Boy [Producer(s): Phantom]
Burna Boy released one of the most important songs of the past year. A big reason for Ye’s success was its relatability; Burna tapped into the aspirations of the typical Nigerian youth, as well as some of their fears. “Ye” is the type of record you fully expect to live past 2018, which is more than could be said of most of the other songs on this list. 8. “This Is Nigeria” – Falz [Producer(s): Donald Glover x Ludwig Göransson] 
Falz’ “This Is Nigeria” was one of the only rap records released last year to cross over. It might have come in the form of the cover of a Childish Gambino song, it might have come with a controversial music video and with deeply contentious lyrics, but “This Is Nigeria” generated the kind of nationwide interest that isn’t usual for a Nigerian rap song, and that’s a plus. 7. “Time To Party” – Flavour (ft. Diamond Platnumz) [Producer(s): Mastakraft]
Flavour flirted with gospel music last year. But that was a phase, and the highlife singer seems to have gotten back to doing what he does best: party records. “Time To Party” is a unique song in Flavour’s catalogue in that it didn’t truly impact Nigerian radio, but the feature from Tanzania’s Diamond Platnumz must have helped the record become big everywhere else. 6. “Excess Love” – Mercy Chinwo [Producer(s): N/A] 
The biggest gospel song of the last few months has undoubtedly been Mercy Chinwo’s “Excess Love”. The worship song has been omnipresent on Sunday radio, at churches and at church fellowships across the nation. The success of the song pushed the singer’s debut album The Cross: My Gaze, to the #1 slot for gospel albums released last year. 5. “Bum Bum” – Yemi Alade [Producer(s): V-Tek]
Yemi Alade’s Black Magic album came and went in 2017 without much fanfare. There was, however, one song that outlasted Black Magic’s shelf-life, and that was “Bum Bum”. It was wisely released as an official single early last year. While the song is hardly the second coming of William Shakespeare, its success was, at least, the perfect response to Yemi’s doubters. 4. “Jogodo” – Tekno [Producer(s): Tekno]
Tekno is the only artist on this list without a body of work. The pop star has taken the non-traditional route to success, but last year he needed a little bit of help. Playing on nostalgia, the singer released a remake of Mad Melon & Mountain Black’s classic record “Kpolongo” that became popular. The only problem was — he did it without the duo’s permission, initially. 3. “Fever” – Wizkid [Producer(s): Northboi x BlaqJerzee]
Wizkid popularized the slang, “everything stew”, and turned up the heat on the Tiwa dating rumors with a sizzling video for “Fever”. The song was Wizzy’s biggest solo record in 2018. While it’s a valid question to ask if the song would still have been as big without the internet-breaking video that came with it, the impact of that moment can never be in doubt. 2. “Assurance” – Davido [Producer(s): SperoachBeatz] 
At great risk to his career and his personal relationship, Davido chose to put his girlfriend Chioma in the limelight. He released a song last year where he professed his love for the previously unknown aspiring chef, and all but worshipped her. Ultimately, “Assurance” was a risk that paid off handsomely and further endeared Davido to his fans, as well as fans of love. 1. “Soco” – Starboy (ft Wizkid x Terri x Ceeza Milli x Spotless) [Producer(s): Northboi]
“Soco” blew up in peak shaku shaku season. It was a godsend for Wizkid who had spent much of the previous year chasing international success, while gradually losing ground at home. “Soco” stopped the slide and ushered in a period of sustained success for Wizkid. The only negative is that no other featured artist was able to capitalize off of “Soco”. The Other 10
11. “Motigbana” – Olamide
12. “Nowo” – DJ Spinall (ft. Wizkid)
13. “Science Student” – Olamide
14. “Gbona” – Burna Boy
15. “Lova Lova” – Tiwa Savage (ft. Duncan Mighty)
16. “Kana” – Wizkid x Olamide
17. “Fake Love” – Wizkid (ft Duncan Mighty)
18. “No One Like You” – Flavour x Semah
19. “Bobo” – Mayorkun (ft. Davido)
20. “Nara” – Tim Godfrey (ft. Travis Greene)