Talented Nigerian songstress, Tiwatope Savage-Balogun, better known by her stage name Tiwa Savage, has found herself a trending topic on Twitter after she decided to jump on the “Fvck You Challenge”. The mother of one earlier today released her cover of fellow singer, Kizz Daniel’s “Fvck You” song but her emphasis on a mystery man whom she described in not so complimentary terms has made fans believe that it is shade at her estranged husband, Tunji Balogun, popularly called Teebillz. In the song which she released on her Instagram page, Savage revealed how she and a certain guy suffered together going from studio to studio while he was searching for fame. She further went on to reveal that the first time the guy traveled to Canada, it was her effort that saw it come to fruition. Throwing more shade on the unidentified man, award-winning Savage also spoke about the debt the guy is still owing Escape, which might probably be a popular night club in Lagos, and how he felt her dark skin wasn’t good enough for him. Fans are since speculating that she is either dissing the father of her child or that it could be references to sensational Nigerian singer, Wizkid whom tabloids and many fans continue to believe is her lover. In a swift response, the singer said her cover of the challenge is not a diss to anyone as she would never disrespect anyone like that. She wrote on Twitter: “Other male artists don do their own challenge but na my own be sub? … IT IS NOT BEAUTIFUL PEOPLE, just a challenge  I hate no one and would never disrespect anyone like that. NEVER .” It would be recalled that Savage and Teebillz’s marriage was opened to public scrutiny some many months back when Teebillz made some damning allegations against the songstress. In a counter-interview to clear her name and set some record straight, she also fired back that he was on drugs. Following their public separation, Teebillz sought help for his addiction and the duo have been very cryptic about the state of their marriage. Tiwa Savage is respected as one of the leading musicians in Africa and to her credit, she has several hit songs to establish herself as a force to be reckoned with when it comes to the African music industry.