 Buhari’s supporter celebrating  What the president must understand is that his campaign about food sufficiency through local agriculture can only be sustainable if communities do not feel endangered by the activities of pastoralists. In other words, Buhari must find forceful ways to rein in the terrorist activities of the herders so farmers could plant crops in their farms in safety. It is the only way his agenda of finding jobs for 60 per cent of Nigeria’s youthful population will hold water.
  
However, in parts of Kaduna, Katsina and all over Zamfara State, a different kind of insecurity has been brewing in the last few months. Criminal elements are on the prowl in most communities, killing, maiming, and kidnapping innocent people unmolested. The situation forced the state governor Abdulla’ziz Yari to resign his position as the state’s Chief Security Officer. He had cried out to Buhari about the crisis, but respite for the state seems long in coming.
  
Buhari’s security apparatus and federal appointments do not quite give room for cheer, critics continue to argue. Now that he has won re-election, he needs to tinker with the service chiefs and make that organ have a national outlook. That way he avoids breaching the constitution and allaying the fears in many quarters. Will he be more rounded at the Next Level and give every region its due? Or will he look only to his Fulani stock for appointees to government’s juicy offices, as has been the case? Mr. President must act proactively as a statesman, and avoid the parochial tag some have labeled him with.
  
But perhaps another of Buhari’s biggest challenge in the next four years of his Next Level-inspired administration is how to grow the economy that is technically still at recession. Manufacturers and economists have roundly forecast a downward outlook for the economy. In other words, it means the administration is living in false economic cocoon that does not translate yet to prosperity. The net result is that youth energy is lying untapped; jobs are still scarce. The thousands of jobs lost in the last four years need to be bought back.
 
How will Buhari react to the plunge in stocks following his being announced as winner of the election last week? Will he dismiss it or take it seriously and work towards restoring confidence in the micro and macro-economic systems?Last year was one to be remembered for the large number of Nigeria’s young men and women who were returned from Libya and parts of Europe in hundreds. Those who died in the desert in efforts to leave the country for better economic fortunes outside are legions and remain unaccounted for. Even next door neighbour Ghana has begun to repatriate Nigerians; no less than 200 had been repatriated in the last month. If these scenarios do not mean anything to the Buhari administration, then the Next Level of poverty, hunger, starvation, tyranny being projected by some cynics just might become all too real and frightening.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .