 EFCC  The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) is currently investigating Alhaji Babalele Abdullahi, a son-in-law of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar over alleged case of money laundering to the tune of €150 million, The Guardian learnt.A source in the commission said: “The commission is investigating Babalele over alleged case of money laundering and the sum involved is 150 million Euros.” “Investigation is ongoing. He is in EFCC and will be released soon.”Meanwhile, a pro-democracy and non-governmental organisation, Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA), has condemned the sudden intensified harassment, arrest, detention and the media persecution of family members of presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, by the EFCC. HURIWA condemned the EFCC for looking the other way whilst the National Leader of All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu, was reportedly seen telling the media that he could carry his cash anyhow he wants it and give them to whomsoever he wants just as the rights group wondered how the EFCC did not arrest the two bullion vans that allegedly conveyed huge cash hauls to the Lagos home of Tinubu. HURIWA, in a statement yesterday in Abuja by its National Co-ordinator, Emmanuel Onwubiko, also berated the Lagos State-based lawyer, Mr. Olisa Agbakoba, for waging a relentless media campaign against the decision of Abubakar to challenge the result of the last presidential poll in the court of law. Besides, it wondered why such a high profile lawyer would be at the forefront of those deploying media publications to demonise the opposition politician only because he has decided to seek redress in the court of competent jurisdiction. Also, the National Chairman of PDP, Uche Secondus, accused the EFCC of becoming an agent of suppression of the masses.He said: “This country is so sentimental, I can tell you that emotions and sentiments will not bring food on your table, it will not turn the economy around, rather, we will nosedive and go deeper and deeper in the situation we find ourselves.” “The leaders of the country are keeping quiet, the peace committee is keeping quiet, everyone here is keeping quiet, what you have now is a full-blown dictatorship, that is what we are getting.”He urged Nigerians to be steadfast and to resist every move to manipulate their will. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .