Acting Inspector General of Police IGP Mohammed Adamu Ogun police assure residents of violent-free exercise
Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, has deployed seven Deputy Inspectors General of Police (DIGs) to the six geo-political zones of the country. Also deployed are 10 Assistant Inspectors General of Police (AIGs) to police zonal commands and 227 commissioners of police (CPs) to complement commissioners in the 36 states commands and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. With this deployment, each command now has additional three CPs deployed to each senatorial districts in their respective states of assignment, which will form part of security management base for the commands’ CPs. In a statement issued yesterday by Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), Frank Nba, noted that based on security assessment earlier carried out by the Force, some local government areas in Plateau, Benue, Imo and Taraba states have one CP each deployed to coordinate security. Mba noted that each of them is expected to work with the command CP and ensure that no stone is left unturned towards adequate security, including supervision of security personnel deployed to each of the Senatorial districts under their watch. Also, four commands of Anambra, Bayelsa, Edo and Sokoto have new CPs posted specifically for the elections. Meanwhile, concerned over threats of violence and unrest in the build up to next Saturday’s election in Ogun State, the state police command has assured residents of adequate security arrangements to ensure a violent-free process. In a statement issued by the State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi yesterday, he said all special units and tactical squads have been put on red alert to deal with individuals or group that may foment trouble during the election. He stated that any acts of thuggery, violence and hooliganism would not be tolerated from anybody no matter how highly placed, before, during and after the polls. “Therefore, all law abiding citizens are hereby enjoined to go out and cast their votes on elections day without fear of harassment or intimidation,” the statement added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .