 MASSOB  Rejecting what it termed “systematic attack and killing of people of Biafra in Oduduwa land”, the group, in a statement by its leader, Comrade Uchenna Madu, stated in Abakaliki that it would no longer tolerate attacks from any sections of the country. The statement read in part: “The leadership of the Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB) has warned of dire consequences of systematic attack or organised killings of the people of Biafra that are residents in Oduduwa land mostly in Lagos State.“Ndigbo are not cowards or afraid of any motivated or sponsored attack against our people in Lagos State or any other part of Nigeria. “MASSOB, will on Thursday, unveil gubernatorial candidates irrespective of political platforms or political parties that are Igbo-oriented in both Igbo land and Lagos. They will indisputably have the massive votes and support of Ndigbo in Saturday’s elections.
 “One good thing the last presidential election has brought home to Biafrans worldwide is that despite the machination of our detractors, the Biafra world spoke with one voice.” However, a group loyal to President Muhammadu Buhari, Presidential Support Committee (PSC), has asked the ethnic nationality to join mainstream politics or forget the presidency.Urging south easterners “to retrace their steps”, it submitted that they would “continue to be losers if they fail to conform with happenstance in Nigeria.” During a press conference in Kaduna addressed by its Director Media and Publicity, Muhammad Kailani, the body called on the six geopolitical zones to work for Nigeria’s greatness.  He appealed to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, to concede defeat in the interest of the nation. Kailani pleaded: “Atiku should congratulate himself for getting as much as over 11 million votes from Nigerians because his stand on national issues seems to have portrayed him as capitalist with a desire to reap where the masses should be fairly accommodated.
“Atiku is claiming that he has evidence to prove that the presidential election was rigged against him in favour of President Buhari.  This assertion is in sharp contrast to election observers who went round the polling booths.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .