Even in prison, El Chapo still controls things. Convicted Mexican drug lord and leader of the Sinaloa cartel, Joaquin El Chapo Guzman, is set to release a clothing line which will come with his name and autograph. El Chapon who is in prison will have his wife, ex-beauty queen and fashion enthusiast Emma Coronel, head the company. The Mexican lord who was convicted of a running a criminal enterprise will have the new company’s name as El Chapo Guzman: JGL LLC. Coronel told CNN that the brand is dedicated to their twin daughters aged 7. Emma Coronel Aispuro, who has become a controversial central character in the trial of her husband, the notorious cartel boss known as El Chapo, in New York, Jan. 18, 2019. Coronel has dismissed the courtroom characterizations of her husband, JoaquÌn Guzm·n Loera. “I don’t know my husband as the person they are trying to show him as,” she said. (Todd Heisler/The New York Times) “I’m very excited to start this project, which was based on ideas and concepts that my husband and I had years ago. It is a project dedicated to our daughters.” “He wanted to be able to set something up — a legitimate enterprise — for the benefit of his wife and his two daughters.” “He loves his wife and he loves his daughters, and he wants to prepare for the future.” None of the profits gotten from the brand will go to Guzman who faces life in prison starting June. However, defence lawyer  Mariel Colon MiroColon insists that this is his wife’s project and not his. “It’s not his project. It’s Emma’s project,” the attorney said. “It’s based on conversations that they had many years ago. It’s something that they wanted to do.”
Some of the merchandise are baseball caps, T-shirts, jean jackets, sweatshirts and phone casesand will engage “up-and coming” fashion designers and artists, the lawyer said, Coronel will be heavily involved. “She really enjoys fashion and designing,” Colon added.  “She’s certainly going to be overseeing a lot of the designs.” It is also believed that this will boost the Mexican economy.