Nigerian media personality, Freeze has said Christians need to embrace divorce in certain situations and he went on to explain. Taking to his Instagram page, Daddy Freeze who has had quite a number of controversies trail him for his opinions about Christianity shared a number of reasons why Christians should embrace divorce. Using Biblical references, he wrote, “We as Christians need to embrace divorce in situations where it becomes inevitable. Although our teachers taught us otherwise, it is now clear that those teachers are untaught when it comes to the true meaning of Christianity, teaching traditions of men instead. A person in an abusive marriage would have a higher tendency to yield to the temptation to cheat or sin. Christ clearly said that if your Good eye or strong hand should make you sin, remove it, let alone your already bad marriage. Christ said that adultery is the only reason why divorce can be permitted. Let’s remember that our Lord and saviour also said that looking lustfully at a woman is already adultery. (Matthew 5:28) Christ said friendship with the world is adultery. (James4:4) Many ‘believers’ today are immersed in the adultery of mammon worship through the love of money, the things of this world and by raising altars of dollars and Naira to demonic entities, in twisted Christian worship, so if your spouse leads you into this sin or practices this sinful prosperity seeking faith, it’s in my opinion grounds for a divorce. The Apostles also confirmed this; saying that if a non-believing spouse wants to leave, let them go, further stating that a Christian is not bound to such a person. 90% of Nigerian ‘christians’ are NOT believers of the true faith, worshipping their pastors and GOs instead, many of whom have clearly departed from the path of light and are led by greed into the worship of money. If someone like that leaves, you are NOT bound to such a person any longer. ◄ 1 Corinthians 7:15 ►
NLT
(But if the husband or wife who isn’t a believer insists on leaving, let them go. In such cases the Christian husband or wife is no longer bound to the other, for God has called you to live in peace.) ◄ Matthew 5 ►
[29] So if your eye—even your good eyel—causes you to lust, gouge it out and throw it away. It is better for you to lose one part of your body than for your whole body to be thrown into hell. [30] And if your hand even your stronger hand causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. It is better for you to lose one part of your body than for your whole body to be thrown into hell.” It would be recalled that we reported earlier that Daddy Freeze the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adeboye for saying that God had breakfast and tea with him. Read More: ISIS Wife Claims Sexual Assualt “Is Allowed In The Quran” Read More: Daddy Freeze Mocks Pastor Enoch Adeboye