 Lee Evans (middle) won gold for USA in the 400 metres sprint with world record time at Mexico ’68 Olympic Games  Unrelentingly though, he has vowed to remain in the country and fight his cause with his last breath till he finds justice, clears his name and restores his hard-earned reputation.  In an environment with people that had no appreciation of his history and his accomplishments, ignorant of his global worth, jealous of the recognition and the assignment given to him, out of jealousy they set out to ruin the global reputation of a most illustrious Black man that did so much for Nigeria, Africa and the Black race during a period when I was a personal witness.  Lee told the circumstances of his eventual coming to Nigeria at the invitation of another young Nigerian Colonel in the Nigerian Army then, Colonel Joe Garba, who was chairman of the Nigeria Basketball Association. The Colonel had employed some American basketball coaches to come and revolutionise the sport in Nigeria and Lee had come along to provide the athletic side of the training. Shortly after he arrived he switched camps to his first love, Track athletics, and responded to Mr. Isaac Akioye’s invitation.
 
That’s how he took over teaching sports and training athletes over from Akioye at the University of Ife when he was posted to Lagos to head the new National Sports Commission established the drive the fastest sports development program in Africa.  All of that was from 1975. 
 
Lee Evans was a part of the great sports renaissance in Nigeria through the mid-1970s to early 1980s. For those who can remember, the product of his work remains some of the best chapters in our sports history, and most of Nigeria’s greatest sprinters were his handiwork – Kola Abdullahi, Felix Imabiyi, Dele Udoh, Taiwo Ogunjobi, Gloria Ayanlaja, and so on, up to the era of a younger generation of Henry Amike, Innocent Egbunike, Chidi Imoh, and so on. These athletes made up the best years of Nigerian sports development in Track and field, and Nigeria was poised to take over global sprinting and jumping. 
 
Lee Evans’ departure was Nigeria’s loss and Jamaica’s gain because he joined the team of American coaches that turned sprinting into the break and breakfast of descendants of a Black race of West African slaves in that Caribbean country. Today, Jamaica has transformed into the sprinting capital of the world.
 
Lee Evans recalled how he realized that Black American athletes in track and field must share the same DNA as his brothers and sister in West Africa, and how it just made sense that West African athletes would make excellent sprinters too in the world. His simple thinking became the tool needed to start the production line of African athletes for almost two decades in the 1970s up to the 1990s – athletes of distinction, with one or two of them always in the final line up of every international sprinting event and championship in the world in the 1970s, 80s and even early 1990s. 
 
Lee Evans travelled around Africa scouting for talent and developing them. For a while he returned to the American Collegiate system, but his love for Africa, and Nigeria in particular, where he believes his ancestors must have come from, brought him back some years ago. He teamed up with Dr. Bruce Ijirigho to develop Track and Field athletics in Cross River State for about three years.  
 
The project was on the trajectory of monumental success when Lee had to leave.I ran into him again, took him to my friend, the Governor of Lagos at the time, Babatunde Fashola, who recognized the unique opportunity presented the State, hired him immediately and charged him to revolutionise track and Field athletes amongst young students in Lagos State.
 
That romance never left the tarmac. Rather than learn from the athletics guru, local technicians became envious, set him up, and turned his dream into a nightmare from which he almost lost his life and his global reputation. Lee has refused to leave Nigeria without first clearing his name. I cannot delve into that murky and shameful matter because it is in court. But those of us that have known Lee since his early days of serving Nigeria, and his passion and love for sports and Nigerian athletes, know the truth of his matter and will continue to support him until he gets justice.He returned from a short trip to Liberia last week and told me about the incredible transformation going on in Liberia under new President, former International football legend, George Opong Weah.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .