 APC leader, Adams Oshiomole  APC’s National Vice Chairman South-South, Mr. Hilliard Eta, in a statement yesterday insisted that the outcome of the poll was not a true reflection of the wishes of the people of the zone. Eta alleged that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) connived with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to deny the APC victory, especially in areas where their candidates were strong. He particularly enjoined INEC to conduct a free, fair and credible election in Rivers state to bring down the rising tension in the region. He said, “We wish to categorically state that the results released by INEC are not a reflection of the wishes and will of the people as they expressed at various polling units. “We have received several complaints to the effect that in areas where our party held sway and won the elections at the unit levels, the returning officers of the states, in connivance with PDP agents, will cancel results of such areas.” Specifically, the APC in Akwa Ibom, has protested against the results declared by INEC and consequently rejected them. State Chairman of the party, Ini Okopido, disclosed this yesterday during a media briefing at the party’s secretariat along Ikot Ekpene Road in Uyo. The PDP won in 25 of the 26 seats in the House of Assembly, while governor Udom Emmanuel defeated APC candidate Nsima Ekere by 519, 712 votes against Ekere’s 171, 978 votes, having won only in the Essien Udim state constituency He noted that the result released by INEC was fictitious and fraudulent, alleging that since the return of democratic rule in Nigeria, he has not seen such spurious and concocted results of elections. Also, the Cross River State wing of APC has rejected the results of the just concluded governorship and House of Assembly elections in the state. The state Returning Officer, Professor Akin Abhadobe had on Monday declared Goverbor Ben Ayade winner of the 2019 governorship election with 381,484 votes compared to APC’s 131,161 votes and Social Democratic Party (SDP)’s 4,818 votes. In a statement, Acting Chairman of APC, Sir John Ochala, said, “I hereby inform the general public that we dissociate ourselves from this rape on democracy in the name of elections. “We are all witnesses to the day light robbery of our collective will and mandate, led by the PDP state government in active connivance with INEC and security agencies.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .