• Brave children stop robbers from stealing dad’s car
Suspected cult members yesterday invaded Oba Akenzua Secondary School and Ihogbe College, leaving some students injured with knives and cutlass stab. The incident disrupted academic activities as teachers and students scampered for safety when the cultists started shooting and attacking students. Ihogbe College and Oba Akenzua are adjacent each other and are located along ICE Road, off Wire road in Bénin City. Eyewitnesses said the cultists were heading for a target in the area, when some students who are alleged members of a rival cult group started throwing stones at them. One of the students was said to have been fatally injured and was rushed to the hospital. There was heavy presence of security operatives after the attack while two suspects were arrested by the police. Reacting, the Edo State Commissioner for Education, Emmanuel Agbale, said no student was killed in the attack, adding that policemen were quickly drafted to the area and the cultists were chased away. He promised that security would be beefed up in the area and that plans were on to merge both schools as one. Meanwhile, two children have demonstrated bravado by stopping two armed robbers and kidnappers who attempted to make away with their father’s car. The two children locked the car steering with the robbers, which made the car to hit a wall and somersaulted. It was gathered that the father of the children simply identified as Doctor had parked to drop his children at the Brother Pius Nursery and Primary School along Akenzua Street, off Airport road in Bénin City when the two robbers asked him to step out of the car. The man stepped out and the two robbers/kidnappers entered the car and drove off with the children inside. Sources said children engaged the robbers/kidnappers inside the car and it veered off the road and hit a wall of a building before it somersaulted. The two robbers managed to escape while sympathisers rescued the children currently receiving treatment in an undisclosed hospital.The Edo State police spokesman, DSP Chidi Nwabuzor, who confirmed the incident, said one of the robbers was pushed out of the vehicle by the children. Nwabuzor added that the two suspects escaped and that the children did not sustain any injury, noting that efforts are on to arrest the fleeing robbers. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .