Actress and comedian, Amy Schumer recently shared some personal information about her husband Chris Fischer. In her upcoming Netflix special, Amy Schumer: Growing — which begins streaming on Netflix this week — the 37-year-old comedian reveals that her husband, is battling Autism. “I knew from the beginning that my husband’s brain was a little different than mine,” she says during the hour-long special, according to Entertainment Tonight “My husband was diagnosed with what used to be called Asperger’s. He has an autism spectrum disorder. He’s on the spectrum. And there were some signs early on,” she says. Schumer goes on to say that the qualities “that make it clear that he’s on the spectrum are all of the reasons I fell madly in love with him.” Ahead of the special’s debut on Netflix, Schumer took to Instagram to pay tribute to her husband and thank him for being so open. The I Feel Pretty actress married Fischer, a chef, on February 13, 2018, and is currently pregnant with their first child.   My special #GROWING is available starting at midnight tonight! Thanks to the editors @kellylyonedit and @cplatas – assistant editor. @florianballhaus the DP @ryanecunningham for all post work. @rayangry for the incredible music @berniekaminski for line producing. @marcusraboydirector for watching my back while I was on stage. @tomlappinn for his camera work  @kimmykuppkakes for hair @andrea_tiller for makeup @hatchgal for my dress. All the local Chicago crew from the camera ops to the PAs. Stage manager. @513designstudio for the set!Lighting design by Robert Peterson. Prompter. Everything ran so smooth! Catering to ushers. To the great audience and the people of Chicago. I am very proud of my work on this as the director and that my production company produced this. It was hard work and i was sick and pregnant. Thanks for believing i could do it @netflixisajoke Especially Robbie Lisa and Grig and Ted! Thanks @miacomedy and @janellejamescomedy for getting the crowd right. Thanks berk! Thanks to @mugsykane and @kimcaramele and @mofischhh for helping me every step of the way and telling me if my jokes sucked and slowly manipulating me into doing it at a gorgeous theater instead of a little club. @chicagotheatre is astounding. But more than anyone and im assuming no one is reading this anymore. But thank you to my husband, Chris who has kept me going during this pregnancy. His willingness and desire to be open with the world about himself and our marriage is courageous and beautiful. He makes me laugh more than anyone and he laughs at me more than anyone. I am more than grateful to have found such an amazing partner and best friend. I’m shocked. I didn’t think this love was out there for me. But it was and it is and I can’t wait to spend my life with you and our growing family. This special is dedicated to my friend @clubsodakenny son Doug and to our new baby who will be joining us very very soon. A post shared by @ amyschumer on Mar 18, 2019 at 7:26am PDT  