 Chairman of Nigeria’s Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Mahmood Yakubu speaks to the press about preparations for the rescheduled general elections in Abuja, on February 20, 2019. – Nigeria’s presidential and parliamentary election has been rescheduled for February 23, 2019, following the postponement of the orinial poll on February 16. (Photo by Pius Utomi EKPEI / AFP)  The decision by INEC to halt the resumption was prompted by an interim injunction by a Federal High Court in Abuja restraining the electoral authority. The court Tuesday morning ordered the INEC not to go ahead with its plan to collate, conclude and announce the results of the governorship election in Bauchi State held on March 9. The judge, Inyang Ekwo, made the order based on an ex-parte application filed by the All Progressive Congress (APC) and the incumbent governor of Bauchi State, Mohammed Abubakar. Abubakar has stated his preference for supplementary polls to be conducted in the state. The restraining order is to last till the determination of the suit brought before the court by the two plaintiffs. The state poll was earlier declared inconclusive by INEC returning officer in the state, Mohammed Kyari. Kyari said the differences of 4,059 votes between the two leading parties, All Progressives Congress and People’s Democratic Party, was less than the number of cancelled votes. There was a disruption in the collation process at Tafawa Balewa Local Government Area which led to the cancellation of results for the entire LGA. INEC said it would investigate the cancellation of the result from Tafawa Balewa Local Government of the state following a report by the state’s returning officer. On Friday, INEC said it would resume the collation of results of the LGA after considering a report submitted by Kyari. The electoral authority also appointed a new collation/returning officer for the LGA to conclude the collation process after Mrs Dominion Anosike withdrew over alleged threat to her life and her family. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .