 Senator Ademola Adeleke representing PDP  In a statement, Obasanjo said: “While I was in Dubai to attend the Global Education and Skills Forum meeting, I received the news of the judgment of the Osun State Governorship Election Petition Tribunal declaring Senator Ademola Adeleke, the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the winner of the 2018 Governorship election in the state. “Let me take this opportunity to commend the tribunal for its courage in nullifying what was clearly an illegality. This action by the judicial officers, albeit a first step in the legal process, gives renewed confidence in the judiciary at a time when there are coordinated efforts by some political leaders to undermine, if not destroy, it.” He also commended Sen. Adeleke for his statesmanship in going to court to seek justice, which was the right and proper thing to do in any decent society. “Going to court must be encouraged and not discouraged as some people are now attempting to do.” Obasanjo further said those conceiving and promoting the narrative that if Atiku Abubakar continues to seek legal redress, there will be violence, are evil minds looking for excuse to unleash violence on Nigerians. Read More: Tribunal declares PDP’s Adeleke winner of Osun guber election “At no time in history has sustainable peace been built on theft, injustice, corruption and inequity.” These merchants of chaos and violence should have no place in any decent society. And they must know that no intimidation or prophesy of violence and doomsday will cow anybody. Nigeria belongs to all Nigerians. We will respect as friends those who believe that what is good for their country should be good for Nigeria. Yes, we are Africans but we have values that are consistent with international standards. Court is part of our democratic process and it must be used when necessary if only to achieve justice, stability, unity and progress for our country.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .