 Dakuku Peterside, NIMASA Boss  Rather, they advocated that the fund be used as seed money to set up a maritime bank.
 
NIMASA Director-General, Dakuku Peterside, insisting that the fund is safe and intact, assured that it would be disbursed to deserving indigenous ship owners this year, when the supervising ministry has perfect the strategies on the exercise.
  
Speaking during a courtesy visit by the Shipping Correspondents Association of Nigeria (SCAN), Peterside, who was represented by the Executive Director, Finance and Administration, Bashir Jamoh, said some necessary conditions at the instance of the Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Amaechi, must be met before disbursement begins to guarantee repayment.
   
Peterside assured that the money was safe, contrary to “the assumption that it has been tempered with. All I know and I can say categorically is that the money will be disbursed this year, but I can’t say the particular time, because it is not the responsibility of my agency to disburse, unless we get such directive.
   
“Once they are sure that we can release the public fund to stakeholders and that the fund is guaranteed back, we release it on the instruction of the minister.”
   
He noted that the issue of migration from Free On Board (FOB) to Cost, Insurance and Freight (CIF), to enable indigenous ship owners and the economy benefit from Nigeria’s crude oil freighting is yielding fruits, as the agency has gone far on the issue.
   
“We are talking with NNPC (Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation), and believe that with time, we’ll have a breakthrough in ensuring that some Nigerian ship owners get the right to lift our crude oil,” he said.
   
“Interestingly, from our conversations, we have evidence that Nigerians are already lifting oil, but we cannot unveil those involved. The NNPC has indicated that some of them are already lifting, and feel it is safe for them to lift without any problem,” he said.
  
President, SCAN, Yusuf Babalola, commended NIMASA for its strides in transforming the maritime sector, through various stakeholder oriented policies. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .