 Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors and valuers (NIESV) President, ROWLAND ABONTA  The theme for this year’s conference concerns the surveyor’s perspective of smart cities. The smart cities appear to be a growing phenomenon, at least in the country. What is smart city?
By simple definition, a smart city can be view from the background of a city that is driven by technology to perform efficiently. It can also be seen as that city that has all the technology in terms of infrastructure and social services to be efficient as a city. Simply put, it is a city driven by technology with all the necessary infrastructure and social service to perform efficiently. Part of the recommendations in your last year conference was for government to come up with roadmap in estate development and also improve infrastructure in terms of quality and quantity. How can this impact infrastructure gap we have presently in the country?
Real estate sector could be said to constitute close to 80 per cent of every urban area or city. Of course, the impact would be better investments yield for investors in the cities or real estate sector. It has a direct impact if all the infrastructure is in place and all the technology are available to make the city works, then better value appreciation would be achieved in the property market and also the demand will also increase when the city is performing efficiently. To be candid, I must say that this government has really invested substantially in infrastructure provision. But what I see lacking maybe coordinated development in infrastructure. Just like the case of housing, what we keep having is adhoc approach to provision of infrastructure without a comprehensive plan of making the infrastructure available and also serviceable for the nation. And some of them derive from the issue of political patronage in terms of where to site the infrastructure and who will actually be given the job. Also, for all intent and purpose, whenever political considerations come into the decision of development, you may not achieve your objective. Once we remove political sentiments and be able to maximize our investments in infrastructure, our nation will be better for it. What is your level of involvement in infrastructure development in the country?
I must say we are involved in infrastructure development. I must also use this opportunity to appreciate the Minister of Power, Works and Housing because not too long ago and on continuous basis, members of this profession have been engaged as Right of Way (RoW) acquisition consultants and in payment compensation for the rail lines coming up across the country. We really appreciate that. We still yearn for more opportunity for better service delivery in the area of getting other professionals involve in project management particular in profession like mine. We could be part of project management on infrastructure development. What is the prospect of your profession in this perspective?
We have a very bright prospect. We believe that the awareness is catching up. Before now, we have some areas of our professional practice been given to unqualified people also known as quacks. Today, we have a better perception of the profession through strategic advocacies that have been going on. Today, we have taken over all the core competent areas of the profession. So the prospect is very bright for the estate surveyors and valuers. We will continue to advocate and plead with government to work with us on developmental issues for a better result. What are your expected short and long-term impacts of your upcoming conference?
Our short-term impact is that we are sure that our members would go into that conference to acquire up-to-date skills and knowledge concerning urban and city administration. And also professionals who have shown interest in the conference will be better equipped to deliver better service for the residents of Nigeria cities. In the long run, we believe that the knowledge acquired from this conference would be brought to bear on future developmental issues in our nation. The development control agencies in our cities would have been given better ideas and approach to the issue of being preventive and hopefully that will stop the issue of collapse of building in all parts of our nation. Above all, for those who would be at home to watch the conference or read in the newspaper, they will definitely be able to indentify what should be their minimum expectations from city administrators or managers as well as know their responsibilities as residents. I think it is a win-win situation for all. How do you see the future of your profession in the context of global trend?
Well, because of the new networking strategy, we  as a professional body in Nigeria are totally affiliated to the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) of London, which is the foremost surveying professional body in the world. In our upcoming conference, we would be having representatives of RICS coming to participate. We are also networking on dealing with other Africa surveying professional bodies like that of Ghana, Kenya and even in America. We are doing a lot of networking to share knowledge, and experiences. It is a common saying that the world is a global village and we have seen a lot of inflow of foreign investment in real estate in Nigeria. We have also seen foreign professional surveyors coming into the country and they don’t come on their own. They come in partnership with our members, which we are insisting that government must insist on the issue of local content. For instance, a UK or US firm coming into Nigeria must find an alliance with Nigeria firm. That is the one that will help us to be able to benchmark them and meet up with minimum work of professional standard. What are the challenges facing your profession and how can they be handled?
The greatest challenge is the influx of quacks into the profession. Today in Nigeria, if anyone does property transaction with the wrong person, he goes home with the impression that all estate surveyors are the same. But when you come closer to investigating what happened, you would find out that somebody somewhere mis-represented the profession. We are not taking it kindly and we are doing everything within our power to ensure that those who spoil our name in the market place are brought to book and if possible stopped from doing such thing. It is an enormous task and we are not giving up to it. All we need is to solicit for government and agencies support, particularly law enforcement agencies like the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and the police. We need to work together to flush out the bad eggs in the profession. We are also doing a lot of enlightenment. With support from government and awareness we are creating, we are going to put those who have no business in the profession  out of business. How would you describe the real estate market in Nigeria considering the existing poor economic situation?
The real estate market in Nigeria is not doing very well. The simple reason is that the economic misfortunes that have befallen our nation in recent years have had direct impact on the real estate sector. First and foremost, investment in real estate is not a small time investment. It is a cost intensive venture. And of course, we run our economy in such as way that people have limited access to mortgages and loan facilities for real estate investment. More, because the real estate investment requires a long term of existence before you can recoup whatever you invested in. So, because of that, the banks have little attraction to the funding of the real estate investment. The mortgage institution which ought to have played that role effectively as it found in other part of the world is undeveloped in Nigeria. Even for those who invest for personal use, find limited access to credits. Again, on the other side, that  is a disadvantage. Also, 80 per cent of real estate in Nigeria is privately sponsored. They are developed by personal funds unlike other part of the world where we could have over 90 per cent of such real estate investment financed by credit facilities. So, once there is a little shift in the original plan for repayment of the credits, the economy begins to shake its foundation because most of the investment in the sector is personal fund. In real time, the lost of income for non-payment of rents and few available off takers for finish product of the real estate market have also help to downplay the potentials of the Nigeria real estate market. What is the relationship between your profession and AMCON, other government agencies especially as it concerns valuation practice? 
I will say that it is a working relationship, from the year AMCON was established, the leadership then reached out to the leadership of our professional body and declared what role they expected us to play in terms of revaluing the mortgage assets that have gone bad, that had issues with the banks and were transferred to AMCON for recovery. We had series of training on how to approach the very delicate issue that had threatened our very existence of financial institutions in Nigeria.  Members worked tediously to meet with the demands and up till now, we have had a very good working relationship. However, there appears to be a disconnect or misunderstanding of the very principle of valuation. Ours is a moving economy, a lot of changes take place in our economy, some due to frequent government policies that affect the economy in all ramifications and some due to corruption. Some valuations carried out about five years ago, when you bring it out to the market today, because of the changes in the economy, you find out that AMCON may not sell it at the value that was done five years ago and what is needed is a revaluation . In the past when the economy was more stable, you can do a valuation and the value will remain the same for a particular number of years but with the kind of economy we have today, where the foreign exchange is not stable, there is need for frequent review of valuation reports and valuation works to make them current with the trends in the economy. AMCON is coming up to ensure that valuations that were done years ago, which are now put in the market, are reconfirmed at the point of sale. We are working with them to harmonise our rules of engagement and to ensure that we satisfy the client side of the bargain. The tenure of your administration is half way, what have you done differently in this one year?
The last one-year has been a wonderful experience for me and also the busiest time of my life because though our profession will clock 50years this year, but by the time we did internal appraisals, we realised that we are far from where we ought to be in 50years time. I must appreciate the contributions and efforts of our past leaders who laid solid foundation, who added building blocks to the institution in terms of bringing us to where we are today. But the societal expectations from estate surveyors and valuers, the growing population of surveyors and the dynamic nature of our economy all have brought pressure to what we must do in order to accomplish our mandate. Coming into office and having been around and part of the hierarchy of the leadership of our institution, since 2006 till now, I have garnered enough experience such that I know some of the pitfalls and where attention was needed most. So coming into office, I did not hesitate in beginning to addressing those areas. My administration started with a visit to our construction site of our national secretariat in Abuja. When we came onboard the, the foundation of the building was being prepared and we took it from there within the 11months of our administration today we are on the second floor slab of the five storey building and our expectation is to finish the structural work on that building within the remaining 12 months and possibly relocate the operations of our secretariat there while doing To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .