 Cast of Rok Me. photo/glitzafrica  Joining Nollywood actress and CEO of ROK Studios, Mary Njoku on the ROK ME Tour will be top stars from the hit series, Single Ladies, Festac Town and Husbands in Lagos including Desmond Elliot, Mercy Aigbe, Bolanle Ninalowo, Jackie Appiah, Annie Macaulay-Idibia, Chinedu Ikedieze and Efe Irele. The ROK Me tour kicked off in Johannesburg and Cape Town last Friday and will end in Lusaka tomorrow before proceeding to West African cities, Accra and Lagos over the next couple of months. The stars will experience some of the best tourist destinations in each city to discover and celebrate African history and culture, whilst connecting with Nollywood lovers via exclusive Meet and Greet events and VIP dinners. To further diversify ROK’s content and the global appeal of Nollywood as a whole, ROK will also be on the lookout for local talent throughout the tour, especially with the release of new series such as “The African Couple”. Nollywood has become a global phenomenon by making it possible for Africans both home and abroad to vicariously experience life in their home and neighbouring countries alike. These movies have encouraged intra-African tourism, trade and engagement, as they continue to shed light on common cultures shared across the continent. Speaking on the tour, Mary Njoku told The Guardian, “We are very excited to be meeting with our super fans across Africa, whilst also being on the lookout for up and coming acting and production talent. We love telling real African stories and providing opportunities for aspiring writers and actors alike. Nowadays, Nollywood is not just made up of Nigerian stars but African stars around the globe and this tour creates an opportunity to learn from locals in each city. Africans, telling our African stories in our own unique and creative ways, cementing Nollywood as a strong global brand, bringing the African message to the world at large is our goal.” Producing over 540 movies and 25 original TV series, ROK’s unique approach to African storytelling has driven high growth in key content areas, resulting in the demand to launch channels around the specific content genres. Fans can join in the fun and keep up to date with activities via ROK social media platforms and register to attend activities on the website. As well as meet and greets with the stars, there will be #ROKME goodie bags and merchandise to giveaway along each stop on the tour so fans are encouraged to turn out in huge numbers. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .