Agbaje Lagos chapter of All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Jimi Agbaje Campaign Organisation 2019 have expressed appreciation to the people of Lagos for their massive turnout and peaceful conduct during the gubernatorial election on Saturday. In separate statements yesterday, the two expressed satisfaction with the process and also commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), security agents and other stakeholders for the exercise, saying Lagos has again demonstrated its unparalleled understanding of democratic ethics in the country. The state’s Publicity Secretary of APC, Mr. Joe Igbokwe, expressed the party’s heartfelt appreciation to the electorate for massively voting its candidate, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his running mate, Dr. Olufemi Hamzat. The party said such long-standing fidelity was responsible for its victory in all the elections conducted this year and the huge success story, which APC has become in Nigeria and in Lagos. According to Igbokwe, “The people of Lagos understand the reliability of the leadership of the National Leader of APC, Bola Ahmed Tinubu. The electorate has continued to trust the former governor’s leadership role because he had not disappointed them and such confidence was shown in the comprehensive victory, which the party recorded on Saturday.” He also thanked the people for accepting the decent and robust campaign of Sanwo-Olu, which according to him, hinged on continued progress and development of Lagos with a view to ensuring better life for the masses irrespective of religious, tribal or political affiliation. According to him, “We know this resonated with the good people who responded with their massive votes on to elect our candidate. We note that while our party was focused on showcasing its achievements, our rivals concentrated on waking and feeding primordial sentiments in a bid to divide the citizens on tribal and religious lines, but we are happy that the electorate accepted our message based on our achievements in the past 16 years.” The party, however, promised that the Sanwo-Olu/Hamzat team would surpass whatever achievements their predecessors had done in the next four years. Meanwhile, the spokesperson of Jimi Agbaje Campaign Organisation, Mrs. Modupe Ogunbayo, appreciated the people of the state and especially the media for the partnership and support before, during and after the campaign. According to her, “It was a tough race. The battle was intense as the Jimi Agbaje Campaign Organisation was beset on every side by daunting challenges. During the three months of hard campaigning, your ready and understanding partnership with us made the mountains surmountable and the battle easier. “We fought a good fight. But, as it is said, the race is not to the swiftest, nor the battle to the strongest, nor wisdom to men of understanding but, time and chance happened to them all. At Jimi Agbaje Campaign Organisation, we know, without any iota of doubt, that the time and the place for that posterity, which will put our candidate in the roll call of honour among valiant men in Lagos politics, definitely, will beckon.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .