 Amine Djouahra, Senior Sales & Marketing Manager – B2C, Canon CNA (left); Tushar Vashnavi, Senior Sales Manager; Omotayo Omodia, Country Manager and Kunle Afolayan at the private press screening of the movie Mokalik in Lagos  In Nollywood, practitioners are looking to collaborate because of the critical role it plays in creating something amazing and in substantially improving the final product. Mokalik the new film by award winning director and producer Kunle Afolayan is a product of collaboration between Afolayan’s Golden Effects Limited and world acclaimed leaders in imaging solution, Canon. To announce their collaboration, Canon hosted a private press screening of the film on Tuesday in Lagos. The private screening which had Canon showcasing the full range of professional Canon cameras and lenses such as the CN=E14mm, CN-E24mm, CN-E35mm, CN-E50mm, CN-E85mm and CN-E135mm among others was graced by exclusive guest from the media, the Nigeria film industry and the cast of the crew of the movie. Shot in Lagos on Canon EOS C300 Mark II and with a range of Canon Cine lenses, Mokalik, an intriguing story of ambition and love and peep into happenstances in a typical Nigerian mechanic workshop, followed the career interest story of Ponmile, an 11 year-old-boy born to middle class parents. With the consent of his father, Jaiye who had expressed interest in trying his hand on a vocation, spends a day as an apprentice mechanic at a busy mechanic shop just so as to experience what life is, outside school and as an artisan. Day over, and when jaiye’s father shows up to take him back home, Jaiye has to decide if he wants to return to school or continue his apprenticeship fulltime. Supported by Canon Central and North Africa, the near two hour movie stars some notable Nollywood and Yoruba movie industry actors like Femi Adebayo, Charles Okocha, Fathia Williams, Wale Akorede aka Okunu, Ayo Ogunshina aka Papa Lolo and Dayo Akinpelu aka Alabi Yellow. Also on the cast are the award-winning singer Simi and the actor Lateef Oladimeji. Speaking at the screening, Afolayan described Mokalik as an ambitious project that tells a story that is unique and relevant to society. “Creating this movie has been an amazing experience and Canon made the experience even better with the support. The Canon EOS C300 Mark II-stunning 4K quality ad versatility allowed me as a producer to experience creative vision in stunning cinematic details and it provides footages suitable for extensive post-production work,” Afolayan said, adding that the camera with the Canon cine lenses helped the team to technically get one step ahead in creating a movie which that will break boundaries.  He also said ‘’the EOS C300 Mark II digital cinema camera is an evolutionary second generation cinema EOS 4K camera system with a wide range of new and improved features. It is focused to help deliver more creative flexibility for professional studio, motion picture production application as well independent productions, TV dramas, commercial, news features, sports and more.” Also speaking the screening, the Senior Sales and Marketing Manager Canon Central and North Africa Amine Djouahra stated that the technical brilliance witnessed in Mokalik is a testament to Canon’s pioneering vision in the realm of serious cinema production.  ’at Canon, we are constantly seeking to connect with the filmmaking community especially Nollywood as it allows us to become a part of one of the largest film industries globally. We are glad to be apart of this bold new technology that helps to make amazing projects like Mokalik possible’’ 