 [FILES] Nigeria Army. Photo: TWITTER/ HQNigerianArmy  While Spokesman of APC Campaign Council, Eseme Eyibo, accused PDP of desperation towards Saturday’s elections, Publicity Secretary of PDP, Ini Ememobong, said such allegations were APC’s ploy to create an atmosphere of chaos ahead of the polls. Eyibo said, “This is another desperate attempt by the opposition party, which started since the commencement of the Presidential and National Assembly elections to scuttle the elections. “This is another in the series of attempts at intimidating and cowing our party and its supporters in the build up to the March 9, 2019 governorship election in the state. “Intelligence at our disposal indicates that faced with imminent defeat at the polls, Governor Emmanuel Udom and the PDP have decided to disrupt the polls in the state if they are prevented from carrying out another electoral robbery.” But in swift reaction, the PDP dismissed the allegation as another APC’s ploy to create chaos ahead of the polls, assuring that the PDP would continue to embrace peace, while but the APC would try to carry out its Warsaw slogan. However, the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Odiko MacDon, neither picked his calls nor called back to confirm or deny the allegations. In a related development, religious leaders have expressed fear over what they described as military ‘invasion’ of the state after the Presidential and National assembly elections, stressing that the development was sending wrong signals to the people. Speaking on behalf of the religious leaders, Prelate Emeritus, Sunday Mbang of the Methodist Church, said the tension the current political atmosphere was creating in the state because of unguarded utterances of some politicians was worrisome, wondering why people should come so low just because of their quest for political relevance. He specifically condemned Senator Godswill Akpabio for his role in what he called the ‘militarisation’ of Akwa Ibom ahead of the March 9, 2019 elections. He noted that although as an individual, Akpabio reserves the right to freely associate with any political party of his choice, his unguarded utterances have however, ignited unhealthy rivalry among members of the different political parties. Meanwhile, after a meeting of the state council of chiefs held at Ibom Hall, traditional rulers have urged politicians to sheath their swords, noting that signals from their activities was unhealthy for Akwa Ibom, which is largely known as a peaceful state. In a statement by Chairman of the council, HRM Edidem Ntoeng-Udo Effiong Akpan, he advised political parties and their candidates to eschew violence, thuggery and unguarded utterances capable of causing violence in the state and the entire country.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .