One of the most famous online feuds that the Internet certainly won’t forget for a long while was when reality TV star, Kim Kardashian called Grammy award-winning songstress, Taylor Swift a snake. The feud stemmed from Swift denying that she had approved Kardashian’s husband, Kanye West calling her a bitch on his song, “Famous”. Following Kardashian’s call out that Swift lied and releasing audio evidence to back up the claim, Swift became the subject of online bullying from many social media users who bashed her for painting West to look like the bad guy. In an article for Elle’s April cover story, the pop princess has shared 30 “lessons” she has learned before the age of 30 and she references her famous feud with Kardashian and how she was able to deal with the pain it caused her. “It would be nice if we could get an apology from people who bully us, but maybe all I’ll ever get is the satisfaction of knowing I could survive it, and thrive in spite of it,” Swift writes. The “Bad Blood” hitmaker revealed that the “online hate campaign” that followed threw her into the lowest point in her life. Swift who made a joke out of the whole thing by having a large inflatable snake as a part of her “Reputation” tour last year went further to say, “I learned that disarming someone’s petty bullying can be as simple as learning to laugh. In my experience, I’ve come to see that bullies want to be feared and taken seriously. A few years ago, someone started an online hate campaign by calling me a snake on the internet. The fact that so many people jumped on board with it led me to feeling lower than I’ve ever felt in my life. But I can’t tell you how hard I had to keep from laughing every time my 63-foot inflatable cobra named Karyn appeared onstage in front of 60,000 screaming fans. It’s the Stadium Tour equivalent of responding to a troll’s hateful Instagram comment with ‘lol.’ It would be nice if we could get an apology from people who bully us, but maybe all I’ll ever get is the satisfaction of knowing I could survive it, and thrive in spite of it. Being sweet to everyone all the time can get you into a lot of trouble. While it may be born from having been raised to be a polite young lady, this can contribute to some of your life’s worst regrets if someone takes advantage of this trait in you. Grow a backbone, trust your gut, and know when to strike back. Be like a snake—only bite if someone steps on you.” Swift also wrote about another life skill she gained in her 20s  in what seemed to be yet another reference to the feud, “I learned how to make some easy cocktails like Pimm’s cups, Aperol spritzes, Old-Fashioneds, and Mojitos because…2016.” It would be recalled that Swift struck back at Kardashian and West on her songs,  “Look What You Made Me Do” and “This Is Why We Can’t Have Nice Things” off her “Reputation” album.