We recently reported that Jordyn Woods appeared on Jada Pinkett Smith’s Facebook Watch series, “Red Table Talk”. During her appearance, the 21-year-old addressed her cheating scandal with basketball star, Tristan Thompson. Thompson happens to be Khloe Kardashian’s baby daddy and Khloe is sister to Kylie Jenner who is Woods’ best friend. Following the scandal, Khloe broke up with Thompson who is the father of her 10-month-old daughter, True Thompson. Telling her side of the story, Woods revealed today that she did not sleep with Thompson but admitted that he kissed her on the lips at a party at his house. She also denied reports that she gave him a lap dance, and admitted she was drunk during the entire encounter with him. Woods went on to reveal that she apologised to Khloe after the encounter, saying, “I did as much apologising as I could do, over the phone, over texts. And until I get the opportunity to talk face-to-face ’cause she can really feel, you know, what I’m saying. but I, I reached out and the opportunity’s there. I offered as much as I could. A lie detector test, anything. Whatever makes you feel better is what I want.” Reacting to Woods’ claim, Khloe took to Twitter and slammed the model writing, “Why are you lying @jordynwoods ?? If you’re going to try and save yourself by going public, INSTEAD OF CALLING ME PRIVATELY TO APOLOGISE FIRST, at least be HONEST about your story. BTW, You ARE the reason my family broke up!” Interestingly, during the interview, Woods had also said she does not think Thompson was “wrong” because, “I allowed myself to be in that position and when alcohol is involved, people make dumb moves or people get caught up in the moment.” To this Khloe tweeted, “Tristan is equally to blame but Tristan is the father of my child. Regardless of what he does to me I won’t do that to my daughter. He has been addressing this situation PRIVATELY. If Tristan were to lie publicly about what conspired, then yes I would address him publicly as well.” Woods who is hoping for the Kardashian-Jenner forgiveness also added on the show, “I’m not asking for people to like me. I’m not asking for you to forgive me overnight. I’m just asking for you to hear me and to feel me.”