PHOTO: INSTAGRAM/ CHARLY BOY OPUTA A leader of a Nigerian socio-political movement #OurMumuDonDo Movement has admitted to collecting millions of naira from Festus Keyamo, a spokesman for President Muhammadu Buhari’s campaign team. Charles Oputa, popularly known as Charly Boy told Roots TV that Keyamo paid him money in “nine figures” in the run-up to the country’s presidential election in February. Charly Boy, however, claimed that the money was a payment for the right to use a song he recently composed. “When Keyamo came to discuss Deji’s matter, he heard my new song that I was working on…where I was dissing Atiku,” Charly Boy said. “I don’t care. But if you want to use my work, you pay for it.” “Of course, he paid for it. And they paid heavy.” When asked how much the money was, Charly Boy admitted that the money was in “nine figures” mentioning no specific amount. The song, ‘Another Guy Man,’ was posted to YouTube on January 25. It has 6, 687 views on Charly Boy’s channel as at Friday morning. In it, he criticises both People’s Democratic Party and All Progressives Congress, with more scathing criticisms reserved for PDP’s Atiku Abubakar while President Buhari was left out totally. He further said in the interview that others in the #OurMumuDonDo, including the co-convener of the movement, Deji Adeyanju, who quit the group earlier in the week, demanded that he share the money with them. Adeyanju accused Charly Boy of betraying the movement by collecting a bribe from the Buhari Campaign when he (Adeyanju) was in prison. Roots TV shared the Charly Boy’s interview on Instagram by Roots TV less than 24 hours after a tape of a conversation between him and Adeyanju was leaked. Charly Boy admitted during that conversation he collected money from Keyamo. Charly Boy has led several protests against the current government which led to clashes with the police. Although Adeyanju said he did not leak the tape, he, however, admitted to sharing it with “a few persons in confidence.” Adeyanju, before Roots TV made the Charly Boy’s interview public, claimed he  rejected offers of about $2 million made to him by the agents of the Nigerian government to quit opposing the government “Since 2017 till date, I have been offered over $2million to compromise but I refused,” Adeyanju tweeted on Wednesday. Adeyanju was in Kano prison from December 2018 till February 2019 over murder charges. The police accused him of killing a Kano businessman, Alhassan Ali, on January 6, 2005, in Kano. He was, however, acquitted of the charges in 2009. The police cited the same case when he was arrested in late 2018. Adeyanju insisted on Wednesday that the government arrested him because he refused to cut a deal with the Nigerian government. “If I had, they wouldn’t have sent me to Kano Central Prison or tried to charge me for terrorism & other crimes.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .