 Some artistes painting at the event  Borne out of a growing desire to provide a platform where alternative and creative artists can showcase their talents, network and celebrate the dynamism of the African sound, the Maker Lab exhibition is a signature event that has been pivotal in kick starting and supporting the careers of several young artists since its inception. Themed Yanga, the exhibition celebrates and promotes young talented visual artists, by allowing them display their craft, interact with other talents and build a fanbase for their art. Acting as a career springboard for emerging artists, the Maker Lab exhibition showcased exhibitors such as visual artist Ruby Okoro, documentary photographer, Neec Nonso, emerging singer and music producer, Yinka Bernie, and hyper-realistic painter, Amobi Abeeb Akin. Ruby Okoro, who is a visual artist born in Nigeria expresses his emotions and the subconscious through conceptual and vibrant photography which is intrinsic to his practice. He often shoots on the move, taking portraits in transit while documenting projections. Ruby firmly believes in minimalism and portrays this conviction in his work. Documentary photographer, Neec Nonso captures everyday life and its nuances. Working predominantly in digital format, he travels extensively around Nigeria to capture the country’s beauty and diversity, in a bid to challenge stereotypical narratives about Nigeria and the continent at large. Yinka Bernie, who is an emerging singer and music producer, explores sound as a tool of social engagement using a sound cocoon, while Amobi Abeeb Akin who is a hyper-realistic painter created a wall installation, using white chalk on a black wall.
 
Speaking on the success of the event, Brand Manager, International brands, Nigerian Breweries Plc, Chinwe Greg-Egu had this to say,
“We are truly excited to sponsor this year’s Maker Lab exhibition, themed Yanga. It’s a great time in the art industry as creatives are steady challenging societal norms, transforming fashion and truly being appreciated on a large scale. As a brand, we remain steadfast in our commitment to provide a creative center where variants of art can truly be expressed, provide professional and non-professional artists and youths a place to celebrate their own talent and artistry.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .