 [FILE] An electoral official looks at documents at the state headquarters of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, on March 10, 2019. – Nigeria’s election authorities announced the suspension of activities in volatile opposition-held Rivers State on March 10 citing violence and threats to its staff, as tensions rise in the wake of closely-watched regional elections. Counting is continuing across the country after the March 9 elections for governors in 29 of Nigeria’s 36 states, all state assemblies and administrative councils in the Federal Capital Territory of Abuja. Results are expected in the coming days. (Photo by PIUS UTOMI EKPEI / AFP)  They made the call while narrating their ordeal to newsmen in Port Harcourt, saying that over 200 hoodlums allegedly sponsored by Governor Nyesom Wike, invaded the Obio/Akpor collation centre.They also alleged that the hoodlums, who came in company of the governor, carted away electoral materials, while the Electoral Officer was seized in the Chairman’s office. Chuku, told reporters that collation of results did not take place in Obio/Akpor, which is why they urge the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to disregard claims that election results were collated at the council. Also speaking, Dike, affirmed that some of the hoodlums who invaded the centre were dressed in counterfeit military and police uniforms, while some were dressed in a black T-shirt embossed with Neigbourhood Safety Watch insignia.  On his part, Wele said the hoodlums manhandled him, insisting that they were not allowed access to the council Chairman’s office, where the electoral officer was kept until she was whisked away. Also, two military officers who were victims of the incident and are now receiving treatment in hospital, Adams Salami and Adeosun Adebayo, said gunmen attacked them. However, Spokesman of 6 Division, Nigeria Army, Port Harcourt, Col. Aminu Illiyasu, confirmed that thugs attacked some army officers during the elections and were receiving treatment in hospital. Meanwhile, the Rivers State chapter of Action Democratic Party (ADP) has charged INEC to ban the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and AAC from future elections in the state for allegedly perpetuating violence that disrupted the March 9, 2019 polls.Gubernatorial candidate of ADP, Victor Fingesi, who spoke with newsmen in Port Harcourt, said no individual or party was above the law, adding: “If one disrupts an electoral process, he should no longer be part of the process”. He, however, sought nullification of the elections, noting that electoral materials that have passed through wrong hands could no longer be used to conduct the polls. Meanwhile, the Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC) in Rivers State has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to ignore calls by pro-APC elders to intervene in the gubernatorial election in the state.IPAC accused APC of attempting to use the call to create a chaotic atmosphere to undermine INEC’s duties. In a statement read by the Accord Party (AP) governorship candidate, Precious Baridoo, in Port Harcourt yesterday, IPAC described the call as an affront on Rivers people, who voted for Governor Nyesom Wike on the March 9, 2019 elections. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .