 Senator Obaisi Ovie Omo-Agege  Ajobena, who spoke with reporters in Abuja, insisted that Senator Ovie Omo-Agege emerged duly elected winner of the poll. Emerhor had after a ruling by a Federal High Court in Asaba that Chief Cyril Ogodo led-exco was the legitimate executive of the APC in Delta State described himself as the “senator-elect” for the district. The APC chieftain, who accused Emerhor of working against the interest of the party, wondered why he had suddenly turned around to claim the hard-fought victory of Omo-Agege owing to his popularity with the electorate at the grassroots level.He said: “There are two sides to the court judgment. One side of the story is on the legitimacy of the Ogodo-led executive. I believe there was justice in that direction. The other side of the story is whether Emerhor should claim that seat. I don’t think he should take that seat if there is any way the law could interpret it. “He created confusion among that group (Delta North) to the extent that they could not even come up with a candidate. “He didn’t want any of them to emerge. Yet, the Ogodo-led executive was to be the platform to present a Delta North candidate for the party with all the northern candidates, including Chief Okotie Osiobe, except Chief Great Ogboru being on the mainstream Delta APC platform, which was being championed by Emerhor. “But Emerhor made sure he created confusion among these people to make sure none of them emerges. “At the surface, you will think he is supporting a Delta North candidate but in reality, he wasn’t interested in any of them neither was he supporting Ogboru but was working for himself and calculating for 2023.“He wants to be governor of Delta State in 2023 and wasn’t supporting any APC governorship aspirant for 2019.” “He saw it that if Ogboru emerges, Ogboru will want to do eight years, so how will that help his cause in 2023. So, to justify what he is doing, he claims to support a northern candidate, but in same way, what is the guarantee that if a northern candidate emerges, he will serve for one-term hence he wasn’t comfortable with that.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .