 Alao-Akala  As the gladiators in the Oyo State governorship race strategize to govern, governorship candidate of Action Democratic Party [ADP], former Governor Adebayo Alao-Akala was absent at a meeting held yesterday at the Ondo Street, Bodija residence of former Governor, Rashidi Ladoja in Ibadan. It was gathered that Otunba Alao-Akala was the one who convened the meeting. Speaking on the development, governorship candidate of People’s Democratic Party [PDP], Seyi Makinde said he could hold brief for the former governor to explain why he was absent from the meeting. Makinde however said negotiations still continued till today, saying the press would be briefed after today’s meeting, adding that he is out for the benefit of Oyo people, saying anything that would help oust the All Progressives Congress [APC] government, he is for it. On his part, the governorship candidate of Social Democratic Party (SDP), Bolaji Ayorinde, said he had spoken with Alao-Akala, expressing optimism that things would be positive from the former governor’s side. He explained that the coalition involved many parties, which keeps increasing daily and their aim is to form a government of unity. Action Democratic Congress [ADC] guber candidate, Femi Lanlehin, who was also present at the meeting refused to speak to the press after the meeting. Meanwhile Alao-Akala has returned to APC while his son, Olamiju, who was removed as the Chairman of Ogbomosho North Local Council last month was reinstated yesterday by the State government. Alao-Akala junior was removed from office for denouncing his membership of APC and joined the ADP. The former governor dumped the ruling APC on the eve of the primaries, accusing Abiola Ajimobi of imposing a candidate on the party. ADP won elections in Ogbomosho, the second largest voting town in the state in the last Presidential and National Assembly elections, which made Alao-Akala, the “beautiful bride”. Akala was at the Vanguard of bringing together all the opposition parties in Oyo State to rescue power from the APC, but his reported meeting with the National Leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu changed the political calculation. Efforts to speak to him did not yield result, as he did not pick calls. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .