President Muhammadu Buhari Despite agriculture contributing 25.5 percent of Nigeria’s GDP and 50 per cent of its labour force, the country has continued to face challenge of feeding itself sufficiently. President made this known, yesterday, at the opening of the 40th Kaduna International Trade Fair, organised by the Kaduna Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (KADCCIMA). Buhari said the country has continued to face the challenge of meeting domestic food requirements, as well as providing raw materials for the manufacturing sector and export. He said: “Therefore, creating a strong linkage between agriculture and industry is a sure way of bringing about sustainable growth by creating new jobs and improving value addition. The move will also create wealth for farming communities, improve manufacturing output and enable roll-out of infrastructure around farming communities, which will industrialise our country in the long run.” Represented by the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Dr. Okechukwu Enelama, the President said state governments are key allies for successful businesses, as their commitment is required for businesses to stay on course. “For instance, we rely on state governments to provide access to land, act as mediators in conflict prevention and resolution, link local Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) to the supply chains of processing companies. States also provide needed infrastructure to link farms to processing plants and markets, and above all, provide a conducive environment for businesses and their host communities to thrive.” He assured that the Federal Government would continue to engage KADCCIMA and the organised private sector to catalyse investment and improve ease of doing business. El-Rufai, who was represented by Dr. Hadiza Balarabe, the state Deputy Governor-elect, congratulated KADCCIMA for 40 years of organising the private sector. He assured that government would continue to build the needed human capital by equipping teeming youths with skills for entrepreneurship development. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .