An illustration of the Advia Plainfield Another initiative aimed at increasing the housing stock in the country has begun in Lagos under a mixed-use development scheme. The project will yield 227 units of residential accommodation. Mixta Africa is promoting the new venture, located within the rapidly developing Lagos New Town axis of Lagos State along the Lekki-Epe Expressway corridor. Construction work at the site began recently, and a vast majority of the project is currently being sold off-plan. The project known, as Adiva Plainfields II is located within the Adiva Plainfields gated residential community. The development offers attractive homes and serviced plots to prospective buyers. It is developed in phases and on completion, the units will comprise four bedroom terraces and two bedroom apartments. The company currently has developments in Lagos, Edo and Rivers states with an eye for expansion in the nearest future. In Lagos State, the developments are along the Lekki-Epe expressway within the rapidly developing Lagos New Town. Mixta Africa’s short and long-term objective is to provide affordable housing, which addresses the current housing deficit. To this end, the firm launched the Emotan Gardens Estate in Benin City with homes as low as N6million. There are also plans to develop affordable housing Specifically, the Adiva Plainfields II has its own infrastructural facilities including roads, power and water supply systems as well as a quality drainage. It is designed as a community where families and live and play. According to the Head, Marketing and Sales, Mr. Korede Lawrence, “The lake, public parks and gardens set the tone for this tranquil community. Adiva Plainfields is a housing development of the future. With its unique design, first class amenities and peaceful surroundings, it is a secure investment for now and the future.” He said: “The types of properties offered in this new phase are specifically targeted to provide an ideal environment for families. The designs are modern and functional while still offering top-notch infrastructure. “It is a quality development, which has its own infrastructural amenities including roads, power and water supply systems and a quality drainage system, which has proven capable of handling torrential rains. “In addition to the breathtaking scenery and accessible services, residents will have access to Adiva Gardens, a beautiful garden right in the heart of the estate and a children’s play area making their living experience even more comfortable.” On the current situation of property business, Lawrence said: “The market is constantly growing even with the increasing number of developers and marketers. It is also becoming clearer that implementing systems that support flexible payment plans is a game changer for the industry.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .