 Nicholas Tofowomo  But the poll was declared inconclusive because the victory margin was less than the total votes cancelled in 56 polling units of four councils estimated at 28,300 votes. After the supplementary election, INEC Returning Officer for the district, Prof. Kayode Onifade, declared Tofowomo winner with 81,892 votes against Omogunwa’s 55,610. The opposition PDP now has two senators-elect from Ondo (South and Central), Tofowomo and Sen. Ayo Akinyelure, while the APC has Prof. Ajayi Boroffice from Ondo North. Tofowomo, who was Commissioner for Transport in the state, declared his victory as an act of God.“I promise to be a good representative to all our people in Ondo South, regardless of their political affiliation, tribe or religious sentiment,” he added. Meanwhile, Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu has expressed his resolve to set up a panel of inquiry into the wanton loss of lives and property at Oba Akoko, Akoko South West Council, during the state assembly election on Saturday. Akeredolu disclosed this during a condolence visit to the area yesterday in company of the Commissioner of Police, Mr. Undie Adie. He expressed displeasure at the level of devastation at the Divisional Police Station and its barracks, wondering why the perpetrators of the dastardly act could embark on such lawlessness.The governor stressed that panel would find out the causes of the tragedy and the cost of damage. Akeredolu, who had declared a curfew on Saturday, urged the police and other security agencies to enforce the restriction of human and vehicular movement in the town. At the palace of the monarch, Oloba of Oba, Oba Nurudeen Adegoroye, the governor regretted that despite the several phone calls made to the monarch to prevail on his people to maintain peace, the people still chose the path of violence. The Commissioner of Police had earlier briefed the governor on how his men at the station were overpowered by the mob after blocking all entries into the town.The DPO, ASP Adewale Mayegun, who conducted the governor and the police boss round the station and other places in the town, said the hoodlums were not only youths. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .