Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on Friday disassociated itself from a former Senator Tokumbo Afikuyomi. “APC wishes to alert the general public, especially the good people of Lagos that Sen.Tokumbo Afikuyomi is not a member of APC, both at the state and the national level as he is a member of Accord Party,” Lagos APC spokesman Joe Igbokwe said in a statement. “While we believe it is within the rights of Afikuyomi to work for any interests that suit his fancy, we feel obliged to warn faithful & loyal APC members that Afikuyomi is not one of us, contrary to the impression he gives to unsuspecting party members.” Tokunbo Afikuyomi was elected Senator for the Lagos Central constituency of Lagos State, Nigeria at the start of the Nigerian Fourth Republic, running on the Alliance for Democracy (AD) platform. He took office on 29 May 1999. He was reelected in April 2003, again running as the candidate of  AD. He left the party with former Lagos State governor Bola Tinubu to form the Action Congress (AC), which later formed an alliance with other parties in 2014 to become Nigeria current ruling party- All Progressives Congress (APC). However, the APC spokesman said it was necessary to inform the public of “Afikuyomi’s clandestine activities to undermine the APC in Lagos so as to promote opposition politicians in the process leading to the governorship election.”
 
“We know Afikuyomi as a member of Accord Party and the Lagos State exco of APC does not know him as one of us as we are aware he has left our party for Accord Party.”
 
Igbokwe warned members of the party and anyone dealing with Afikuyomi to be aware that he is not a member of APC. “We urge Lagosians to stick firmly with an APC that has served them so well in Lagos and which had gotten a pan-Nigerian renewal of mandate to give the country continued good, honest and fruitful governance for the next four years,” Igbokwe added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .