 [FILE PHOTO] Governor Muhammadu Umaru Jibrilla Bindow of Adamawa State  A High Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) has dismissed a suit seeking to disqualify Adamawa State Governor Mohammed Jibrilla Bindow from contesting Saturday’s governorship election.The Incorporated Trustees of Kingdom Human Rights Foundation International had in a suit No. FCT/CV/518/2018 alleged that Bindow supplied false information to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in his INEC Form CF00. The group had claimed that Bindow purported to have sat for the West African Examinations Council (WAEC) in June 1983 and possessed the General Certificate of Education (GCE) issued by the examination body.The group also accused the governor of falsely declaring his educational qualification and date of birth for the purpose of nomination/election into the office of Governor of Adamawa State in the 2019 general elections. It, therefore, urged the court to disqualify Bindow. But in a ruling delivered yesterday, Justice Olukayode Adeniyi, partially upheld the preliminary objection Governor Bindow raised against the suit and declined jurisdiction.Having partially upheld the notice of objection and held that the court lacked the jurisdiction to hear the suit, the judge proceeded to dismiss it. Besides, the gubernatorial candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)‎ in Bauchi State, Bala Mohammed Abdulkadir has said that invitation and questioning by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) over alleged misappropriation, while in office would not affect his chances in Saturday’s governorship election. Bala, who is the major contender for the Bauchi top job said: The fact that I am been questioned by the EFCC doesn’t make me guilty and will not stop my aspiration because I know that I have not committed any crime until it is proved otherwise in the court of competent jurisdiction. Also, a former Acting Governor of Adamawa State and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) gubernatorial candidate, Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri’s quest for Government House received a boost yesterday, as 10 governorship candidates stepped down for him.They also declared their support for him to enable him win the Saturday, March 9, 2019 governorship contest in the state. Speaking in Yola, Fintiri, who expressed delight at the candidates’ support, said the coast was now clear for the PDP to win the election considering the popularity of candidates who have joined his campaign.He said he would run an all-inclusive government, pointing out that everybody that has good plans to move the state forward will be given an opportunity to contribute his quota to the development of Adamawa. Governorship candidate of Peoples Party of Nigeria (PPN), Mrs. Lami Musa said the contestants had to make sacrifices by putting aside their personal interest and work for the interest of the state.The candidates are, Danjuma M. Musa (FJP), Naziru S. Maiyaki (ZIP), Ahmed Hassan (DA), Salihu Danjuma (APM) and Abdullahi Usman (NCP). Others are Bappari Umaru (KOWA), Mrs. Lami Musa (PPN), Mrs. Elizabeth Isa (CAP), Frank Simeon (MEGA) and Sadik Musa Kahlid (MRDD).
In a related development, some chieftains of All Progressives Congress (APC) and members in Mubi North and Mubi South, Governor Mohammed Jibrilla Bindow’s home base, have defected to the PDP and vowed to dethrone the governor. Leader of the defected chieftains, Sajoh Gella, said the failure of APC government under Bindow’s leadership was one of the major reasons for leaving the party.Besides, the Kaduna State Progressive Governorship Candidates Forum has adopted Governor Nasir el-Rufai, as their candidate for the gubernatorial polls in the state. They made their decision public yesterday, when 49 political parties and 32 candidates stepped down for el-Rufai, insisting he was their consensus candidate. Chairman of United Democratic Party  (UDP), Auwal Abdullahi Aliyu, said they were supporting el-Rufai to ensure that he continues with his good works, stressing that he has done well and deserved a second term. Meanwhile, the Oyo State African Democratic Congress (ADC) and Zenith Labour Party (ZLP) have agreed to adopt PDP candidate, Seyi Makinde for the March 9, 2019 governorship poll.The development ended speculations that the coalition arrangement had hit the rocks.Directors general of the parties’ campaign organisations confirmed the decision yesterday, saying details will be provided later.The Guardian learnt that a formal announcement and unveiling of the coalition would be made today at a press conference. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .