Director General, NAFDAC, Prof. Mojisola Christianah Adeyeye. Photo: NAN The Nigerian-British Chamber of Commerce (NBCC) has canvassed partnership with the National Agency for Food, Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) through an executive delegation to the agency. The move was in furtherance of its commitment to securing strong partnerships, while also addressing issues and challenges faced by its members. The visit, according to NBCC, followed series of strategic engagements with key stakeholders within the Nigerian and British business community to form collaborations, strengthen partnerships, while also extending the commitment and support of the chamber. The President of the chamber, Akin Olawore, who led the team, who expressed gratitude to the Director-General of NAFDAC, Prof. Mojisola Adeyeye, for receiving them, stated that the visit would foster the relationship between both organisations, given the importance of their roles. He solicited support for NAFDAC in the fight against adulterated drugs in the Nigerian market, which considering its effects, have negative impact on competitiveness and margins of legitimate businesses within the country and pledged the chamber’s alliance. Adeyeye stated that, in ensuring that medium and small-scale businesses thrive, the agency has reduced the registration fees for micro businesses to encourage compliance, while also engaging in trainings for such businesses. She also stated that a support system has been set up on its online and offline platforms to engage more prospective and operational businesses and ensure greater understanding of NAFDAC procedures within the Nigerian Market.         The don stated that the agency is aware of the scourge of adulterated products, which has infiltrated the Nigerian market and is currently working on strengthening regulations in the market by introducing nationwide monitoring systems to combat the problem. She used the medium to call for the support of businesses in the affected industries through its whistleblowing channels, which is readily available to the public. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .