 Dr. Idiat Adebule  Speaking at the third inter house sports competition of Babcock University Schools, Ogba, Lagos, held at Agege Stadium, Adebule, represented by the Director General, Office of Education Quality Assurance, Mrs. Ronke Soyombo, said children needed positive avenues to direct their energies apart from academics, as it would help them develop physically, emotionally and mentally. She said it was this understanding that prompted the state government to invest hugely in the sector since sports was connected to youth development and could be used as a catalyst to create job opportunities, alleviate poverty and reduce crimes. She said, “Inter-house sports competitions, no doubt, are an integral component of any serious academic activity. Of most significance is the fact that it enhances the spirit of friendship, unity and togetherness amongst the students, whilst promoting healthy competition. When they come together in this manner, there is a tendency for them to interact better and keep away from vices and other negative behaviours. “Aside from the fact that inter-house sports tournaments focus on the display and discovery of athletic talents, through interactions, pupils also learn and imbibe several leadership qualities such as discipline, commitment, temperance, perseverance, team-work and dedication which are the hallmarks of good leaders. And so schools must avail pupils of this opportunity.” Principal of the school, Gabriel Fashanu said the school held athletic activities in high esteem owing to its capability and strongholds in other domains of education. “Sports make education holistic, if it is lacking, then you are not grooming a balanced individual. Schools skipping such activities for whatever reason should desist from it.” Stating that so far, they had identified raw talents, Fashanu said, “I have seen some students who are not performing excellently well academically excelling in this area of domain, they were applauded and celebrated and were happy that at least they can be celebrated.” At the end of the field events, Yellow House emerged the overall winner, while Blue House and Purple House, came second and third respectively. Green House came first in the march-past. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .