Poised to consistently promote saving culture in Nigeria, Fidelity Bank Plc, has rewarded its customer with a total of N18 million cash prizes in the “Get Alert in Millions Savings Promo (GAIM). The bank gave the prizes to 12 winners at the monthly/2nd Bi-Monthly draw of “Get Alert in Millions Savings Promo (GAIM), Season 3,’’ held in Lagos. The winners were selected through a computerised and transparent simple random system and picked from the bank’s branches across the six geo-political zones. Members of National Lottery Regulatory Commission, and other lottery regulatory bodies in Nigeria were in attendance to witness the draw. The Executive Director, Shared Services and Product, Fidelity Bank, Mrs Chijioke Ugochukwu, said that the bank still had N42 million left to give out in course of the promo.According to her, the bank has recorded significant increase in deposit through the initiative in the last few years. “The reason for the promo is more of the impact on customers, impacting lives, touching lives, ensuring that we add value to their lives.She explained that the promo is designed to bring the unbanked into the banking system, and encourage them to save and plan for the future. “Another reason is to increase the savings culture in Nigeria. So far, we notice more people are saving, we notice more people opening accounts even for their kids, which have not been the tradition over the years, and we are seeing a lot of these. “We started this journey in October 2018. At today’s draw, we will be giving out a total of N18 million to 12 customers.“At the end of this draw today, we would have given out a total of N68 million in cash and 72 consolation prices to over 100 winners, counting from the previous draws held before this fourth one in this Season 3 promo. And we still have N42 million to give out in subsequent draws up till the end of the promo in May,’’ she said. Speaking on how to participate, the Group Head, Savings and Retail Sales/Chairman of Promo Committee, Mrs Janet Nnabuko, said: “You must have a savings account with Fidelity bank.“Existing customers are expected to top-up their account with N10,000, while new account holders are to open with any amount, and grow the account to at least N20,000 and above, to participate in the monthly draws. “For the Bi-Monthly draw, you must grow the account to at least N50, 000 and above. Any of the two categories of the draws could fetch you either promotional gifts, N1 million, N2 million, or N10 million respectively,” she explained.The Divisional Head, Retail Bank, Richard Madiebo, expressed satisfaction with the promo, saying the bank had registered over 300,000 new customers since its inception, adding that more customers are still expected to declare interest.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .