 Real Madrid’s Spanish defender Sergio Ramos reacts at the end of the Spanish league football match between Real Madrid CF and FC Barcelona at the Santiago Bernabeu stadium in Madrid on March 2, 2019. (Photo by JAVIER SORIANO / AFP)  Ramos posted a series of questions to himself on social media on Monday in the hope that his answers would be “the most honest way” to tackle speculation surrounding the club. Madrid beat Real Valladolid 4-1 in La Liga on Sunday but Solari’s future as coach remains in serious doubt after the consecutive league and cup losses to Barcelona which were followed by Ajax knocking them out of the Champions League, defeats that all-but ended the Club World Cup winners’ hopes of winning another trophy this term. “As footballers, we like to do our talking on the pitch but this season is not turning out that way,” Ramos wrote. “Recent events have been disastrous and I’m not hiding. We are not hiding. We the players are primarily responsible and I, as captain, more than anyone.” On Solari’s position, Ramos said: “It’s a decision that’s not ours to make and in which we never interfere. We have enormous respect for the position and we always support the Real Madrid coach. “These reflections are, without doubt, the result of a deeply disappointing season but if success didn’t stop us, we’re not going to let defeat stop us. It’s our obligation to carry on, to work and to evolve.” Ramos has been at the centre of Madrid’s problems in recent weeks. He was suspended for the defeat to Ajax after deliberately picking up a yellow card in the first leg and, sitting in the stands for the return, Madrid’s captain was then pictured filming a documentary as his team-mates were beaten 4-1. “Was the yellow card in Amsterdam an error? Absolutely it was an error and I take the blame 200 per cent,” Ramos wrote. “Why did you record the documentary? There are certain commitments made and it never remotely went through my head that the game could have turned out as it did. The recording itself was scaled down as the game went on.” Ramos was reportedly engaged in a heated argument with club president Florentino Perez after the game, in which he countered accusations of unprofessionalism by attributing Madrid’s problems to bad planning at the top of the club. “Did you argue with the President in the dressing room? Dressing room issues are discussed and resolved in the dressing room,” Ramos wrote. “There’s no problem whatsoever and everybody has the same interest: Real Madrid.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .