 Ogun Governor-elect, Mr Dapo Abiodun  Abiodun stated this on Monday during his victory speech at a news conference in Iperu. He said that he took the position in spite of Amosun’s antagonism and hostility towards him in the build-up to the Saturday’s elections. Abiodun, the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) at the governorship election was declared winner by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Monday. Amosun, who is a leader of the APC in the state, rejected Abiodun after his (Abiodun)’s emergence as the party’s flag bearer from the election primaries conducted by representatives of the APC’s National Working Committee (NWC) Subsequently, the governor declared support for his anointed candidate, Adekunle Akinlade, who later contested on the platform of the Allied Peoples Movement (APM). Having emerged winner of the polls, Abiodun, however, said he was not angry with the out-the governor, who is now a senator-elect. He recalled that he neither uttered any negative words against him nor exhibited any form of anger towards him throughout the period of the campaigns. “My desire and priority are to serve the people of Ogun sacrificially and this is what is uppermost in my heart. “That desire is beyond any personality and I have learnt through the experience of the campaign period that if a man is humble, keeps hope alive and resilient in the face of opposition and discouragement, he will eventually be victorious. “Though the race was tough, the challenge was tasking, the odds were enormous and the obstacles were many, but to God be all the glory for this divine victory which is for all the good people of Ogun. “Campaigns and elections are now over and it is time to start the real business of governance,” he said. Abiodun, who promised to run an all-inclusive government, called on his fellow contestants to join him in harnessing the human and natural resources of the state for the overall development of the state. “The development of Ogun is the collective duty of all and with the love of the state in our hearts; I know we all have something to offer for our development. ‘‘Our government will be more than willing to take the benefits of shared knowledge and experience,” he said. Unveiling some of his plans for the state, Abiodun said he would pro-actively create and promote enabling environment for a public and private sector partnership for rapid industrialisation and infrastructure development. He added that his government would focus on rehabilitation of rural roads to ease movement of farm produce with a view to creating wealth for real farmers. “The local government administration is the closest to the people and we will return relevance to this third tier of government in Ogun. ‘‘We will create a beneficial synergy that will quicken the pace of development in our local government areas,” he said. He expressed appreciation to President Muhammadu Buhari, Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, as well as members and chieftains of the APC for their support throughout the period of election.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .