 Segun Odegbami  My plan was that within five years the school would have a maximum capacity population of 100 boys and 20 girls, all would be resident on the campus, and all would be going through a unique, modern teaching/learning methodology designed for students with learning difficulty. 
 
I took it for granted that the students would comprise mostly those that parents would have ‘trouble’ with as they come loaded with unbridled passion for sports (football, in particular), to the detriment of their academics being forced on them by worried parents. 
 
A happy medium between the two worlds (of sports and of education) would be a great compromise for parents. That combination, of Education and Sports, would always sell, particularly in this part of the world. 
 
That was my goal, a world-class institution that would dwarf whatever America offered young children. America was the benchmark. That’s why I travelled there twice during the preparatory period to understudy what the country’s specialist sports institutions were doing. I was determined to do more and do them better.
 
But no sooner did I start than the dream became a tall order.
 
When I got some financial consultants to start the computation of the cost of establishing even a mini version of the school, the initial figures were so staggering that I had to stop the work half way, in frustration. I never looked at the figures again. 
 
It has been almost 14 years since then. To look at the figures would be to see ‘impossibility’ and to abandon the project. So, I worked without a budget against all business model norms.  Two days ago, I visited the students and decided to share the story of the school with the 70-odd number in the school currently, far from the target of 120. 
 
The students were blown away by my stories of the unbelievable challenges that I have faced every passing day of the past 11 years. 
 
Of course, I also proudly told them of a few of the monumental achievements: the international recognition and awards for social inclusiveness of the school in the community; several invitations to me as resource person to tell my experiences; an invaluable source of data on the impact and effect of intensive physical activity on young students; and so on.  In September 2019, also, there will be enough facilities to drive the school at full steam. In September 2019, the legendary American sprinter, scholar and world renowned coach, Lee Evans will join the school’s programme as a partner. With degrees in Physical and Health Education, impeccable records as an athlete (Olympic Gold medalist, World Champion and World record holder) and an intimidating record of developing young world beater-athletes in Jamaica, U.S., Tanzania, Nigeria e.t.c, Lee comes to the table ready to help me achieve my dream of the best sports and education school in the world. 
 
He will become SOCA’s global ambassador and within the next three years, that ultimate dream will materialize. Thank You Lee. Watch out and go to the website @socaschool.com. •Read the remaining part of the article on www.guardian.ng  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .