It was a moment of mixed emotions as the film and fashion entrepreneurs shared their brand stories in the semi-final pitch of the ongoing Nigeria Creative Enterprise Support Programme by the British Council in Partnership with the Foreign and Commonwealth Office. Displaying their crafts ranging from well-tailored suits to utility outfits, menswear, female fashion outfits as well as handmade leather bags, all 25 fashion entrepreneurs brought their A game as they pitched their businesses to the jury. The film entrepreneurs equally showed their talent in areas of scriptwriting, content development, acting, animation, as well as gaming. Reiterating the mantra of the enterprise programme, Adenike Ogunlesi, Founder, Ruff n’ Tumble, who served as a juror at the fashion selection pitch stated that, “Fashion is serious business. It is not play, neither is it a hobby. If you can consistently add value, you will get value.” Renowned film director, Stanlee Ohikhuare, also advised the film entrepreneurs to ensure that their content is visually appealing at all times to sustain the interest of the audience. The selection pitch which will usher 20 of the 50 creative entrepreneurs into the final stage, where they get to present their businesses to judges and prospective investors featured a display of grit, expertise and learnings from the 11 weeks of mentorship, intensive training, workshops and work placements delivered during the program. While each entrepreneur has put in their best, only 20 of them will make it to the big stage on 30 March 2019 where they will pitch for a business grant before the judges and audience. This pitch will be streamed live for the general public. In reinforcing its commitment to support Nigeria’s Creative industry, the United Kingdom will through this programme empower 10 of the final sets of entrepreneurs with grants to scale their businesses and build on the lessons drawn from over 11 weeks of training as they improve their indigenous brands to have a global appeal.