Experts have cited institutionalisation of entrepreneurial skills as panacea to reduce unemployment in the country, stressing the need for quality education to empower career persons to attain professional mobility. The experts, who decried the rate of unemployment in the country, argued that empowering entrepreneurs could change the country’s current unemployment status. They advocated the need for a strong focus on entrepreneurship and equipping individuals and firms with requisite skills needed to build and maintain their brands. Country Manager, Nexford University, Olamidun Majekodumi, said it was important to improve the economy by providing high quality, flexible and accessible higher education. Speaking at the university’s open day recently, Majekodumi said the institution’s mission was to enable greater socio-economic mobility across the world by providing learners access to high quality, affordable and dynamic education that would prepare the younger generation for global workplace. She added that the only way to maintain standards and achieve improved curriculum was to deploy technology and constant use of data to refresh the curriculum due to change in the workplace landscape. “Our programme is flexible that interested persons can do it on their telephones, computers, as well as online and offline. The learner is able to access the Internet and download all the lesson plans and content they would be able to work through offline,” she added. Director, Academic Innovation, Nexford University, Dr. Robin Berenson, said the open day brings together entrepreneurs and many individuals in Nigeria to focus on quality education and connection between workforce and education. She added: “The workplace is changing and so should higher education. Nexford aims to bridge the gap between learners and employers. At Nexford, learners are equipped with leadership and teamwork skills, technology for business, corporate sustainability, innovation, change, and information-driven decision making.” She said the institution was also working with the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund and other entities to improve employment and employability. Berenson explained the connection between workforce and its model, saying: “We provide answers to where the jobs are in the future. Looking at what people need now and in the future, not only in transferable skills, but also communications, critical thinking problem solving and requisite skills for the future.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .