OAP Toolz Loses Dad, Oba Oniru Of Iruland Popular Nigerian OAP, Tolu “Toolz” Demuren has lost her father, Oba Abiodun Oniru at the age of 82 According to PulseNG, the monarch died on Monday, September 23rd, 2019 at his Oniru palace. There has been no official confirmation from his palace and his children. Meanwhile, Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Monday expressed his condolence to the Oniru Royal Family and the people of Lagos over the passing of Oniru of Iruland, Oba Abiodun Idowu Oniru. The governor, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Gboyega Akosile described the late monarch as “a very important Lagosian and a patriotic Nigerian” who passionately channelled his energy and traditional leadership towards building a prosperous State. The statement reads: “On behalf of the Government and the people of Lagos State, I commiserate with the Oniru Royal Family on the transition of His Royal Highness, Oba Idowu Abiodun Oniru who joined his forebears. His service to the state and country at large will remain his enduring legacy. “While we hoped the late monarch would be with us as we roll out our strategy towards a ‘Greater Lagos’, Oba Oniru today breathed his last and left legacies that will remain valuable in our effort to build the Lagos of our dream. “We take solace in his esteemed advice and regular admonition from which our government drew strength to lift our people and improve their welfare. I pray that Almighty God repose the soul of the late monarch and grant the Oniru Royal Family the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss.” Oba Abiodun Oniru was born on 6 September 1937, the 12th of the 15 children. His father was the long-reigning Oba Yesufu Oniru, who died at the age 120 in 1984. Oba Abiodun Oniru attended St David’s Primary School and Araromi Baptist School on Lagos Island and then went to Eko Boys High School for his secondary education. In 1965, he left Nigeria to study civil engineering at the British Institute of Engineering Technology in Slough. He returned to Nigeria in 1968, to join his father run the family business.