Francis Uzoho. PHOTO: REUTERS/Ueslei Marcelino Former international, Friday Ekpo has condemned Coach Gernot Rohr’s pronouncement that Francis Uzoho is the best goalkeeper for the Super Eagles at the moment. Speaking to The Guardian yesterday, Ekpo said such utterances were capable of affecting the performance of the other goalkeepers when they are called up to fight for the number shirt in the. He submitted that Rohr should strictly monitor the goalkeepers and players to bring out the best in them, stressing that praising the standard of a particular goalkeeper more than the others in the national team could create an unhealthy relationship among them. The former Shell of Gabon player also enjoined Rohr to concentrate on picking the best players for the national team, adding that he should look into the domestic league for quality players to improve the standard of the Nigerian competition. “I don’t see reason why Rohr should be coming out to the press to say that the Super Eagles don’t have goalkeeping issues again based on Uzoho’s performance in the Ukraine friendly. “This statement will not encourage other goalkeepers in the team to be at their best when in camp. For a national team to be solid, there must be continuous competition among players and keepers. “When a goalkeeper believes that his other colleagues are equally good like him, he will work extra hard to keep his number one shirt… this also goes to players. “If you want to look at it from another perspective, Alloy Agu, who is the Super Eagles goalkeepers’ trainer, is the person that has the right to acknowledge the quality of a goalkeeper, not Rohr. “All that football loving Nigerians need is continuous quality performance from all departments of the Super Eagles. We need more results than words,” he said. On the confusion in the Super Falcons, Ekpo called on the NFF to rectify the issues, saying that the women national team needed to be organised to be in top shape. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .