 ILO Director-General Guy Ryder  The resolution emphasises the need for a human-centred approach to the future of work.The Assembly also called on United Nations (UN) bodies to consider integrating the declaration’s policy proposals into their work. Permanent Missions to the UN of Belgium and Jamaica, which also co-chair the informal Group of Friends of Decent Work welcomed the historic role of the ILO and its constituents in promoting social justice. It endorses the declaration’s stance, that “full and productive employment and decent work for all are key elements of sustainable development, and should therefore be a priority objective of national policies and international cooperation”. Permanent Representative of Jamaica to the United Nations, Courtenay Rattray, said the adoption of the resolution shall contribute to strengthen multilateralism even further while enhancing the critical role of social dialogue and international labour standards. The policy recommendations include strengthening the capacities of people to benefit from the opportunities of a changing world of work, strengthening the institutions of work to ensure adequate protection of all workers, and promoting sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. The UNGA resolution also requests the UN Secretary-General, António Guterres, to take the centenary declaration into account when considering related reports, noting that, as issues related to the future of work gain in importance and momentum, it provides an opportunity for the UN system to promote a human-centred approach to the future. ILO Director-General, Guy Ryder, who welcomed the resolution said: “Today’s decision by the UNGA is a tribute to the work of the ILO, and makes it clear that the UN’s entire membership recognises that the ILO’s mandate is as relevant and vital today as it was 100 years ago. “This new resolution encourages all UN member States and UN bodies to apply the principles of the declaration. It is an important step towards ensuring that we prioritise a human-centred approach to the future of work, and invest in people, institutions and sustainable growth in ways that can create full, productive employment and decent work for all.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .