 People queue to attend a protest in support of Russian actor Pavel Ustinov next to the Russian Presidential administration in central Moscow on September 18, 2019. – About 200 Russians including actors and musicians staged a protest today outside the presidential administration in Moscow in support of jailed demonstrators amid a crackdown on the opposition. This month Russian courts sentenced six people to jail terms ranging from two to four years following a wave of anti-government protests in Moscow. The sentencing of young actor Pavel Ustinov sparked particular outrage, triggering a rare campaign of solidarity among popular actors and other Kremlin-friendly celebrities. (Photo by Dimitar DILKOFF / AFP)  Actor Pavel Ustinov, 23, was this week sentenced to three-and-a-half years in prison for violence against police at an opposition protest, despite his insistence he was simply a bystander. The conviction sparked a solidarity campaign, with supporters from film stars to priests, and saw hundreds of people demonstrate outside President Vladimir Putin’s administration on Wednesday. A Moscow court will consider the prosecutors’ office request to release Ustinov at midday on Friday, the actor’s lawyer told the Interfax news agency. The apparent backtrack comes after a harsh crackdown on the protests that has seen six people sentenced to jail terms and thousands of participants briefly detained. Ustinov’s case caused particular controversy because the court refused to consider video footage that showed police in an apparently unprovoked attack on the actor. The footage showed officers in full riot gear lunging at Ustinov — who was standing with a phone in his hand near a metro station — and beating him with batons. Prosecutors said he resisted arrest, causing a policeman to sprain his shoulder. The solidarity drive echoes a campaign for the release of journalist Ivan Golunov this year, who was arrested on trumped-up drugs charges, apparently because of his investigative work. The journalist was freed after support from public figures and top newspapers. Tens of thousands of people rallied in Moscow this summer after authorities refused to allow opposition candidates to stand for the city parliament in September 8 elections. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .