Nigeria's vice president Professor Yemi Osinbajo Wednesday described the recent xenophobic attack on Nigerians and other foreign nationals living in South Africa as the unacceptable and senseless height of bigotry. The vice president who condemned the act in Kano regretted that the "lives and livelihood of Nigerians living in South Africa was being destroyed again". Professor Osinbajo spoke while unveiling the two day Kano state summit on free and compulsory basic and secondary education. Although the vice president contented that the incessant criminality being perpetrated by some elements in South Africa might not reflect the "very ideals of the great leaders of South Africa", he insisted the government must stem the tide against the continuous attacks on innocent immigrants. "Attack in South Africa is a condemnable act and it is very sad and it is very unfortunate that the lives and livelihood of Nigerians living in South Africa is being destroyed again. "The level of bigotry is terrible and unacceptable and as you know Mr president has already spoken about it and certainly we are ready to take the case up with the authorities in South Africa to ensure this sort of thing does not repeat itself again," Osinbajo emphasized. Unveiling the new Kano policy on free and compulsory education, the vice president was inclined that the idea of Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje on education will, no doubt revamp the lost glory in the Northern region. He reminded that the president Muhmmadu Buhari led government has made huge commitment in human capital development particular on educational growth across the country. The Vice president emphasized the positive output of Federal government investment on education was evidenced in the current 9.8 million children being feed daily in some public schools in the country under the social investment intervention of the government. He reiterated Federal government determination to meet the target of 15 million children and plans to collaborate with state government to equip basic and secondary schools across the country with basic infrastructures. Governor Ganduje applauded president Mohammadu Buhari's commitment on education especially on Almagiri system in Northern Nigeria. The Governor posited that the summit was engender to examines and generate renewed ideals on the implementation of the new policy on free and compulsory education in Kano.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .