 [FILE PHOTO] Managing Director, Nigerian Ports Authority, Hadiza Bala Usman  Usman, who also spoke at the Long Service/Merit award ceremony of NPA, expressed determination and commitment to recognising the efforts of its workforce, who have contributed positively over the years in the area of optimal dedication and a high level of professionalism through improved welfare in its quest to attaining hub status within Africa. She further assured of incentives to motivate staff to work harder in all spheres towards the sustainability and realisation of reforms embarked to meet international best practice in the competitive environment.“Management considers putting in place a well-motivated workforce with the requisite character, competence and capacity to optimise our rich maritime endowment towards the sustainability of the reforms we have undertaken so far. “Without this the sustainability of the reforms we have undertaken so far as well as the audacious goals we poised to achieve as enunciated in the 25 year development plan would remain unattainable,” she added. The Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, represented by the Minister for Trade and Development, Adeniyi Adebayo, while commending NPA for putting together the award ceremony, stated that the event goes to show the high premium the authority places on its human resource, which has paid off across board, especially within the maritime sector. According to him, the event could not have come at a better time as it falls in line with the agenda of the President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration, which “prioritises the welfare of its workers regardless of whether they are still in service or retired’’. He urged the workers to put in for efforts to make the maritime sector play a critical role in the realisation of the Federal Government’s Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP). Minister of Labour and Productivity, Dr. Chris Ngige, said NPA’s gesture was in line with the objectives of the government in the area of improved welfare and appreciation for the workforce.He therefore, assured that the administration would continue to invest assiduously in the welfare of the Nigerian workers in the development of the nation. Chairman Board of Directors of the NPA, Emmanuel Adesoji Adesoye, stressed that the event was part of the resolution of the board in promoting staff welfare, which it believes would boost efficiency and commitment to the development of the maritime sector in Nigeria.He charged the awardees to further exhibit exemplary conduct and not rest on their oars.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .