The 14 victims abducted on Sunday evening at Ajeokun Junction between Otan Ile and Imesi Ile in Obokun Local Government Area of Osun State have been rescued by the police and local vigilance group. The Commissioner of Police, Mrs. Abiodun Ige, said all the victims abducted by the gunmen were rescued unhurt. The victims were passengers of a commercial bus travelling from Osogbo to Abuja via Imesi/Otan-Ile road. The victims were allegedly ambushed at Ajeokun Junction between Otan Ile and Imesi Ile before 14 of the 18 passengers were whisked into the bush. An eyewitness told newsmen that poor condition of the road made it difficult for the bus driver to escape from the bandits. Osun State Coordinator of Oodua Peoples Congress (OPC), Chief Aladesawe Adedeji, also confirmed that the 14 victims had been rescued. He disclosed that a joint team of OPC, vigilance groups, the police, and the Department of State Security (DSS) made frantic efforts to rescue the victims unhurt after gun duel with the bandits. The police spokesperson in the state, Folasade Odoro, disclosed that some of bandits escaped into the bush with bullet wounds. She said one vigilance group member sustained a minor injury from the gun battle between the security operatives and the bandits. Former chairman of Obokun Local Government, Mr. Sunday Ojo-Williams, said the vigilance group working in Imesi Ile and policemen immediately launched a rescue operation when they got wind of the attack and were able to rescue some of the passengers. “They are still there combing the bush for others that are still being held by the kidnappers.” Meanwhile, gunmen on Sunday abducted a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain, Ben Akile, along Zaki-Biam-Katsina-Ala road in Benue North-East senatorial district of Benue State. It was gathered that Akile was on his way from Zaki Biam to Katsina-Ala town for PDP zonal meeting with Senator Gabriel Suswam when he was abducted. An eyewitness, Paul Unande, revealed that the victim, his aide and some PDP members were travelling in a vehicle belonging to the State PDP Legal Adviser, Tela Mue, when the gunmen waylaid them on the way. “They shot at them from the bush, robbed them of cash and other valuable before taking Ben Akile to an unknown destination,” Unande said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .