 Everton’s Nigerian midfielder Alex Iwobi (R) passes the ball during the English Premier League football match between Everton and Wolverhampton Wanderers at Goodison Park in Liverpool, north-west England on September 1, 2019. (Photo by Paul ELLIS / AFP)  Earlier on, Richarlison scored twice to help Everton beat Wolverhampton Wanderers 3-2. Spurs shocked the home fans at Emirates Stadium to take an early lead in the 10th minute yesterday when forward Christian Eriksen capitalised on an error from goalkeeper Bernd Leno to slot the ball home. Harry Kane later doubled the lead with a penalty kick after Arsenal captain Granit Xhaka’s reckless tackle on Son Heung-min left referee Martin Atkinson no choice but to point to the spot. Arsenal striker Alexandre Lacazette pulled one back just before halftime to make it 2-1. Arsenal then regained a foothold in the game, putting pressure on Tottenham’s backline. Midfielder Matteo Guendouzi floated a long pass behind the Spurs defense to find Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, who drifted between the two central defenders. The striker only needed to poke the ball past goalkeeper Hugo Lloris for the equaliser in the 71st. Arsenal thought they had a winner minutes later when defender Sokratis Papastathopoulos bundled the ball over the line, sparking wild celebrations among the home crowd. But an offside decision against Sead Kolasanic was upheld by VAR and the score stood at 2-2. It was nearly Spurs’ day after a difficult week – losing to Newcastle and then constant speculation about the possible departures of Eriksen, defender Jan Vertonghen and even manager Mauricio Pochettino. For Arsenal, the match was meant to showcase a vibrant attacking force in Lacazette, Aubameyang, and summer signing Nicolas Pepe. But the visitors were able to stifle them in the first half before Arsenal became a threat after the break. The result leaves Arsenal in fifth place in the league, with Spurs in ninth. In the early afternoon game, Everton led 2-1 after a frantic opening 12 minutes at Goodison Park as Richarlison and Alex Iwobi bookended goals around one from Romain Saiss. Richarlison scored twice and Alex Iwobi netted his first league goal to hand Everton a thrilling 3-2 win over Wolverhampton Wanderers in an electrifying Premier League encounter at Goodison Park yesterday. Wolves gifted the home side the opening goal in the fifth minute, a defensive mix-up between defender Conor Coady and goalkeeper Rui Patricio presenting the ball to Richarlison, who thumped a bouncing shot into the net. Everton was equally generous four minutes later as Adama Traore sent a low ball into the box and defender Seamus Coleman stopped it in front of the goal, teeing it up for Romain Saiss to poke home the equaliser. Iwobi put his side ahead again three minutes later, rising to send Gylfi Sigursson’s header flying past Patricio. Having successfully qualified for the group stages of the Europa League on Thursday by completing a 5-3 aggregate win over Torino, Wolves looked to be running out of steam in the second half until Raul Jimenez stooped to head home a flick-on from a long throw to put them level again. Richarlison secured all three points for the home side in the 80th minute, out-jumping Willy Boly to give his side the lead for the third time. Boly was sent off in stoppage time after receiving a second yellow card as Everton hung on to win. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .