• Another allegedly rapes, kills married woman in Ibadan
A 25-year-old Ifeanyi Obekwe was on Tuesday arraigned in an Ebute Meta Chief Magistrates’ Court, Lagos for allegedly defiling a toddler. The defendant, whose address was not given, is charged with defilement and conduct likely to cause breach of the peace. Prosecution Counsel, Insp. Chinalu Uwadione, told the court that the defendant committed the offence on September 9, at about 10:05p.m., at Ilaje community, Ebute Meta West. Uwadione said the offence contravened the provisions of Sections 134 and 168 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015, which prescribes two years sentence for convicted offenders. The defendant pleaded not guilty to the charges. The Chief Magistrate, Mrs. Adeola Adedayo, admitted the defendant to bail in the sum of N500,000 with two sureties in like sum. She adjourned the case until October 16 for mention. Meanwhile, an Iyaganku Chief Magistrates’ Court sitting in Ibadan, on Tuesday, remanded one Ismaila Gbolahan at Agodi Custodian Centre for allegedly raping and murdering a 38-year-old woman. Gbolahan, 21, who is facing a three-count charge of rape, stealing and murder, was arraigned alongside Blessing Oyedeji, 22, charged with receiving stolen item. The Chief Magistrate, Mr. O.O. Adisa, who did not take Gbolahan’s plea, ordered that the case file be sent to the state Directorate of Public Prosecutions (DPP) for legal advice. He, however, granted Oyedeji bail in the sum of N30,000 with one surety in like sum. Earlier, the prosecutor, Sgt. Salewa Hammed, told the court that Gbolahan of Oju irin Aba-Ile, Idi-Ape, Ibadan committed the offences on August 29 at about 4:10p.m. at Ogidi Community Estate, Akobo, Ibadan. Hammed said the defendant had unlawful carnal knowledge of the woman without her consent. “Gbolahan was alleged to have unlawfully caused the death of the woman by hitting her on the head with a stool. The defendant made advances to the woman but she refused claiming she was married. He traced her to her house where he raped and killed her, ” Hanmmed said. The prosecutor said the defendant also stole the victim’s Itel A32F mobile phone valued at N60,000. The offences, according to the prosecutor, contravened Section 357, 383 and 383 of the Criminal Code of Oyo State, 2000. Hammed also alleged that Oyedeji received the Itel A32F phone with the knowledge that it was stolen. The prosecutor said the offence contravened Section 427 of the Criminal Code of Oyo State, 2000. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .