Photo: Global News In all relationships, there are good and bad days. Not all days are rosy for you or your spouse; Your spouse might be in a terrible mood and get upset about every little thing you do, which he/she doesn’t do on a normal day. If you feel helpless about that certain behavior your spouse is showing and wish there are ways to help them, you can consider any of the listed: Listen To Your Spouse: You do not have to be the one talking, listen instead. Listening is such an effective action and it can go a long way in helping your partner. The point of listening is not to offer suggestions but to make them realize even if the world falls apart, they still have you. They may not be willing or ready to talk but make them understand you are there for them. Hug Your Spouse: You can hug your spouse to make him/her feel relaxed to an extent. Hugging makes one feel special and comforted. A recent study published by the Public Library of Science (PLOS) stated that a hug from someone special helps the buffer against negative emotions. Oxytocin, known as the “cuddle hormone” is released when you wrap your arms around someone. Massage Your Spouse: Research shows that massage can improve one’s mood and reset circadian rhythms – “a natural, internal process that regulates the sleep-wake cycle and repeats roughly every 24hours” – which can lead to better sleep and more energy whether it is the changing of seasons or chronic feelings of anxiety and depression. Foot and back rub massage can do a lot of wonders to someone who is down mentally or physically. Massaging your spouse can help to ease off anxiety and tension. Compliment Your Spouse: When you compliment your spouse, it helps increase their self-confidence and worth. It definitely goes a long way in your relationship and can help put your spouse in a better mood. Don’t know what to say? You can start by saying how good his/her looks, tell them how much you love them and sing their praise. As easy as A, B, C! Cook For Them: To change the mood of your spouse, you can cook their favorite meal. Just the look of the meal can cheer them up and make them forget about their worries. Make sure the taste matches its importance.   