 Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu. Photo; TWITTER/JIDESANWOOLU  The Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, made the call on Monday during a courtesy visit by the House of Representatives Ad-hoc Committee on Port De-congestion. Sanwo-Olu said that the capacity of the two ports in the state had doubled, hence, the need for more ports. According to him, the port is a sector that is not only critical to us in Lagos but it is critical to the economy of this nation. ”If we want to be serious about the development of this economy, I think it is important for us to take proper action and decision as to where that economy really goes. ”We believe that critically, Lagos deserves two more ports, hence, planned Lekki and Badagry deep seaports to free up the congestion at the other two ports. ”I want to remind you that 48 hours after we assumed office, Apapa and Tin Can port were the first destination we went to in the state. ”With the cooperation that existed between the Taskforce set up by the Federal Government and ours, we have been able to bring relief to residents because of the congestion and traffic that existed previously on the bridges and roads leading to the ports. ”But as we rejoice over that, we need to look at the best solution that will bring sanity to the axis,” he said. Sanwo-Olu said that it was clear that the development of Lagos had outgrown the Tincan and Apapa ports, therefore, it was not out of place that one would see a lot of pressure and congestion around the ports. He said that the state was proactive to ensure that the gridlocks within the ports were solved. ”And that is why we believe critically that Lagos State needs two other ports. This will not only solve the gridlocks within the ports but being the economic nerve center of the country. ”We have put on the table the development of the Lekki Deep Sea Port, which I must say to you that it has started and Badagry Deep seaport. We have both ports on the eastern and western parts of Lagos. ”We are still in conversation with NPA to grant the approval because we have identified the developers, partners, and financiers for the Badagry seaport. ”If we can see the construction and development of both ports, the congestion that we see at the Apapa and Tin Can ports will reduce. It will also spread development across the country, especially in Lagos State. ”It will be a lot easier for anyone that has come to lift goods from the ports to their warehouse. We will also reduce all other smuggling that had existed. ”The economic viability of both projects had been done. We are appealing that you use your good committee and NPA to help advance this conversation so that development will be spread across the state. ”We see that as the state grows, there is a need for these additional facilities to grow with it. We all know that these two ports have been in existence over the years. We believe that these additional ports will de-congest existing ports,” the governor said. He said that the government’s plan was to make Lagos destination for investors, as the state was ready to attract Foreign Direct Investment (FDI). Earlier, the Chairman, House of Representatives Ad-hoc Committee on Port Decongestion, Hon. Yusuf Yakub said that the committee was set up to investigate why the ports in the country were not performing maximally. Yakub said that the committee was established because of the importance of the sea ports to the nation’s economy and to find ways to de-congest the Tincan Island and Apapa Ports. ”The ports are the gateways for import and export in the country, so we need to keep them clean and working. ”Where the sea ports are sick, that means the economy is sick, so we need to keep the ports working,” he said. The chairman said that the country needed more seaports, including dry ports and Lagos, definitely needed more ports.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .