 [FILES] President Muhammadu Buhari  President Buhari did not hide his feelings while playing host to a delegation of State Governors elected under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the State House, Abuja, yesterday. The National Chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole, led the delegation Apparently elated by the judgment, which affirmed his re-election victory in the February 23 presidential polls, President Buhari said: “I thank God for that because I think I would have gone into trauma or something. So, I was busy trying to concentrate on the memo.” The tribunal judgment came while the President was presiding over the resumed Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting at the Council Chamber of the Presidential Villa, Abuja. According to the President, if he had lost the case at the tribunal, the impact down the line would have also been of grave tremendous consequence to many people, especially those within his party. He said: “On this judgment, it was a fabulous coincidence that it came almost the same time the first Federal Executive Council meeting of this government was taking place. It lasted about the same time with the judgment. “The first memo was on the budget and it took more than five hours. So, while you were doing your thing for nine hours, we were doing ours for about seven hours here. “It is a very interesting coincidence and I thank God for it because I would have been in trauma or something of that sort. So, thank you very much for sharing the glory with us.” The President used the occasion to appreciate the APC governors for finding out time to visit and congratulate him on the victory. “What I will say to the chairman of the party and governors in return for your congratulating me is to make sure you really institutionalise the party so that when we leave, the party will continue to lead,’’ he said. In his remarks, APC Chairman Adams Oshiomhole said the judgment was “eloquently and analytically” delivered to clear all doubts on the veracity of the president’s school credentials, saying, “We never had any doubt. We were convinced of our victory.’’ He, therefore, assured the president of the party’s loyalty and support. “It is of particular interest that the only asset that the president has invested and continues to invest in his integrity. “We saw some people trying to throw mud at that integrity. On personal integrity, the opposition party does not have in their rank any man or woman who has your integrity,’’ he added. The Chairman of the Progressive Governors’ Forum, Alhaji Atiku Bagudu, congratulated President Buhari on the victory at the tribunal. While describing the judgment as clinical, with surgical precision in dealing with all the issues raised, Bagudu assured the president of the support of all APC governors and other governors that had benefited from his leadership. “The APC governors are here today to celebrate the victory of the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal which gave judgment on Wednesday. “As said by the chairman, it was a judgment that is very pleasing to all of us and, on behalf of all the APC governors, I say a big congratulation to you and to our party for this success,’’ he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .