Energy Drink. PHOTO: Pixabay An energy drink is a type of drink containing sugar and stimulant compounds, usually caffeine. Depending on the brand and variety, it may or may not be carbonated and may also contain other sweeteners or herbal extracts. Energy drinks boost your “energy” level. The main ingredient in energy drinks is caffeine which stimulates brain function and increases alertness and concentration. What is in your average energy drink? Sugar: Usually the main source of calories in energy drinks, although some do not contain sugar and are low-carb friendly.
B vitamins: Play an important role in converting the food you eat into energy your body can use.
Amino acid derivatives: Examples are taurine and L-carnitine. Both are naturally produced by the body and have roles in several biological processes.
Herbal extracts: Guarana is likely included to add more caffeine, while ginseng may have positive effects on brain function. But are energy drinks good for you? 5 Reasons Why You Should Put Down That Energy Drink: Cardiac: Repeated consumption of energy drinks can lead to cardiac problems. Multiple studies in humans have shown that consuming energy drinks may increase blood pressure and heart rate and decrease important markers of blood vessel function, which could be bad for heart health. Stress and Anxiety: Caffeine triggers anxiety. Anxiety is our body’s response to situations that we perceive as being worrisome or threatening, and it promotes our body’s “fight or flight” response. Too much energy drinks make you overreact, irritable and agitated in situations that normally wouldn’t affect you. Insomnia: If there is one thing that energy drinks does well; it is to keep you alert and awake. However, too much intake can mess up your sleep pattern. A study on the effects of energy drinks on athletes linked an increase in the frequency of insomnia to energy drinks. Sugar Content: Energy drinks contain way too much sugar than your body needs. Some contain as much as 16 teaspoons of sugar! Excessive sugar intake has been linked to the development of obesity and various types of cancer, as well as type 2 diabetes and rotting children’s teeth. Addiction: Caffeine – the main ingredient in energy drinks is the world’s most widely consumed psychoactive drug. Here is how you know you are addicted: you consume multiple energy drinks throughout the day, you still feel tired even after drinking an energy drink due to your huge tolerance to caffeine, you can’t concentrate and be productive at work without energy drinks, you get a caffeine withdrawal headache if you miss a day of normal consumption.