– Father still in critical condition A 45-year-old mother and her two children have died in Odo-Ayedun Ekiti, Ikole local government area after eating yam flour, popularly known as amala. Her husband, who is in his 50’s, is also in a critical condition at the Federal Teaching Hospital in Ido Ekiti, as doctors battle to save his life as a result of suspected food poisoning. Two dogs, which also ate the yam flour, were said to have died, according to eyewitness. The eldest of the children was 14 while the younger one was 12. The incident was confirmed to newsmen yesterday by the lawmaker representing Ikole constituency II at the Ekiti State House of Assembly, Adeoye Aribasoye, in Ado Ekiti. Earlier, Aribasoye had raised the issue at the plenary of the House where he called for sympathy and investigation into the matter. Recounting the sordid scenario to newsmen, Aribasoye said the yam flour was made by the woman, which she served to all her family members as dinner. “After they ate the yam flour on Saturday, the mother and her two children complained of stomach ache overnight and they resulted to self medication, which led to the death of the woman on Monday while the two children died in quick succession between Monday and Tuesday. “Before the deaths were broken to the father, he was already down and the man was rushed to FETHI, where he is currently battling with his life,” the lawmaker said. According to Aribasoye, the remote cause of the incident was still unknown, but he noted that the larger percentage of the people suspected food poisoning. Aribasoye further lamented the poor health facilities at the health centre in Odo Ayedun community, which could have been a veritable avenue for them to receive first aid. In his response, speaker of the Ekiti State House of Assembly, Funminiyi Afuye, sympathized with the deceased’s family and the entire people of the constituency over the tragic incident. He directed the House committee on health to commence investigation into the matter. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer, Ekiti Command, DSP Caleb Ikechukwu, confirmed the incident. He said the police would join hands with other institutions to investigate the cause of the deaths.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .