 Members of cast: Koye Kekere-Ekun, Udoka Oyeka (director), Angel Unigwe, Shawn Faqua and Frank Donga  Three Thieves is an action-comedy film produced by Trino Motion Pictures. It is the second feature film from the movie company. Directed by Udoka Oyeka and written by the trio, Sammy Egbemawei, Abba Makama and Africa Ukoh, Uche Okocha is the producer. With a lot of funny scenes that will make you laugh till your ribs hurt, there is never a dull moment in the movie.
Tega (Koye Kekere-Ekun) is a videographer who lives with his friends, Oreva (Shawn Faqua), an unemployed hustler, who sells fake products, and Rukevwe, (Frank Donga), a pump attendant, in a part of Festac Town. The trio are frustrated with their current employment as they need to struggle with their low-paying jobs to make ends meet. Like every ambitious young man, they have the desire to acquire riches. Tega meets a woman at a bar, who offers him a low-risk robbery contract that will fetch him million. The latter had mistaken Tega for a professional robber. Tega asks his friends to help him with the robbery. Considering their financial status, the three agree to do the job since they wouldn’t have to harm anyone. Their inexperience and lack of strategy contributes to their messing up the job. They bite more than they can chew when the professional robbers hired for the job comes after them. Added to their problems, they find they might be adding kidnapping to their list of felonies as the daughter of the targeted family, Fuwe (Angel Unigwe) stows away in their car, unknown to them. Her parents are neglecting Fuwe because her mother is expecting a male child. She takes a liking to the three and plays an integral part in their plot. Executive Producer, Babtunwa Aderinokun, did a wonderful job in featuring top actors such as Odunlade Adekola, Shaffy Bello, Omotunde Adebowale (Lolo), Enado Odigie, Wofai Fada, Charles Okocha and Funny Bone, and for the financial provisions made available for the production of the film. The Director of Photography, Kagho Idhebor Bishop, did an excellent job on the visual and technical aspects of the film, taking beautiful shots from different angles. Speaking with the Director, Oyeka, after the screening of the film, he expressed hopes that viewers will find the film enjoyable as he did in the process of directing. He says, “It was a pleasure putting this film together. The synergy between the three guys made my job easier and made my time on set a lot more fun. I am really excited for everyone to see this project and share in the happy spirit it brings.” While appreciated the efforts of his co-writers, Egbemawei says, “for me the characters were live from the scripting stage and seeing it brought to life, I can say justice was done. Writing this with great minds like Abba Makama and Africa Ukoh who could share in the vision I had for the story was indeed amazing.”The film, which will be premiered in cinemas on October 4, has a message for all, irrespective of age.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .