 Federal House of Representatives Ad-Hoc Committee on Port Decongestion led by Hon. Yaqub  with Sanwo-Olu to discuss how all the associated bottle necks around efficient services can be eliminated. Photo: TWITTER/JIDESANWOOLU  Sanwo-Olu, who spoke while receiving members of the House of Representatives ad-hoc Committee on Ports Decongestion led by Yusuf Buba Yakub, said the state had already deployed resources and manpower to the construction of the seaports, which, he said, were being initiated to complement the capacities of the existing ports in Apapa and Tin Can Island. He said Lagos needed two additional ports, which would serve the state and also build the national economy. Read More: Sanwo-Olu seeks NASS support for more ports in Lagos Sanwo-Olu said the Federal Government’s move to grow non-oil sector and boost the economy would be rewarding if the capacities of existing seaports were efficiently maximised. He pointed out the need to enhance the efficiency of the Apapa and Tin Can Island seaports for improved non-oil revenue generation, stressing that the decongestion of the two ports was long overdue. The governor, who stated that his visit to the two Lagos ports within 48 hours after he assumed office was an indication of the strategic roles the two seaports play in sustaining the state’s 24-hour economy, said the setting up of a joint task force by the state and the Federal Government to tackle gridlocks along the routes leading to the ports was a step to prepare the ground for full decongestion of the facilities, urging that the effort should be complemented with a total overhaul of the seaports’ operations for improved efficiency. Meanwhile, Yakub said the Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, set up the committee to investigate the cause of congestion of the seaports with the task to give recommendation towards solving the existing challenges for non-oil businesses to thrive. The lawmaker promised that the recommendation to be submitted by the committee would lead to the maximum utilisation of the seaports as well as generate jobs for the youths. said: “The House of Representatives believes the seaports are critical gateways for exchange of consumer goods. If our seaports are not functioning optimally, our economy would be sick. We will handle this oversight function with the urgency it demands to turn around our ports and make them efficient.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .