The suspect, Stella Peter • Son stabs 80-year-old father to death in Kano
Homicide detectives in Lagos State have arrested a 23-year-old woman, Stella Peter, for allegedly stabbing her live-in-partner, Bala Haruna, aged 25, to death over his refusal to finance their daughter’s one-year birthday party. The incident occurred yesterday morning at No. 2, Tejuosho Avenue, Surulere where the suspect and the deceased have lived as a couple for three years. It was gathered that Peter, a native of Kogi State, had an argument with her Kebbi State partner, Haruna, following his inability to raise N30,000 for their daughter’s birthday, which was yesterday. The couple, it was gathered, started having dispute before 6:00a.m. after Haruna, a phone charger, was said to have given his woman N3,000 to buy biscuits and share among kids in the slum neighbourhood. According to a neighbor, who simply identified himself as Alhaji, the woman got angry insisting she wanted to host a party and want a Disc Jockey (DJ) hired for the celebration. “Today (Tuesday) was their daughter’s birthday. She said she wanted N30,000 to host a party for the child but her husband said he did not have money. “He gave her N3,000 that she should buy biscuits and share to other children but the woman got angry. They argued and it turned to a fight. That was when she took a kitchen knife and stabbed him. The blood was pumping out. It could not be stopped. Even when he was taken to the hospital and mortuary, the blood was still coming out. He died in the house because it was blood and water that was coming out. Now, I am afraid of women and I don’t think I will ever get married,” the neighbour said. When The Guardian visited the residence located directly behind Oba Tejuosho’s palace, forensic experts from the Lagos State ministry of justice and homicide detectives from the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID), Panti, were sweeping the scene for fingerprints and other exhibits. Their room was cordoned off while the officials were evacuating their equipment. Petty traders along the avenue condemned the suspect for demanding such money from Haruna, who they said operated his phone charging business from a makeshift kiosk by the canal. “How can you kill your husband over birthday party? Where did she expect him to get the money from? The young man does not even have money to do business. He is a phone charger. People pay him N50 to charge their phones. He also assists people to upload music to their memory card and download games/apps,” a woman said. Confirming the incident, spokesman of the police in Lagos, Bala Elkana, said they received the complaint at about 6:00a.m., adding that the woman would be charged with murder. “The couple who were not actually married lived together for three years and have a baby who just turned one. An argument ensued between them, which turned violent and the woman used a kitchen knife to stab the man in the back, which led to his death. “The woman accused the man of refusing to release money for their daughter’s birthday party. Homicide detectives have taken over the investigation. The suspect confessed to the commission of the crime. She will be charged to court for murder,” he said. Meanwhile, an 80-year-old man, Malam Ibrahim Salihu, who was severally stabbed by his 35-year-old son, Habibu Ibrahim of Asada Village in Doguwa Local Government Area of Kano State, has died. The police yesterday said they have arrested Habibu who went into hiding minutes after killing his own father. The spokesman of Kano police command, DSP Abdullahi Haruna Kiyawa, said one of the suspect’s brothers, Yahaya Ibrahim, reported at the Asada Doguwa Police station on Sunday, September 15, that his younger brother, Habibu had stabbed their father in the stomach unprovoked at about 1:30a.m. He added that: “Upon the receipt of the complaint, officers at the station quickly mobilized and rushed the victim to Doguwa General Hospital to be resuscitated but later passed away in the hospital at about 6:30a.m. of same day while receiving treatment.” The police spokesman said a post-mortem examination was conducted on the deceased body and was later released to the family for burial in accordance to Islamic rites. “Preliminary findings revealed that the suspect is a drug addict and carried out the heinous crime under the influence of hard drugs. The suspect’s relatives made us know that Habibu has been abusing drugs and that has been an issue, which consequently led to the killing of his father,” he said, adding that the Commissioner of Police, CP Ahmed Iliyasu, has directed that the suspect, who already is in custody, be transferred to the State Investigation and Intelligence Department (SIID) for a more discreet investigation as soon as doctor’s report is obtained.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .