Cucumbers in a colander | Photo: Pixabay The cucumber is a member of the Cucurbitaceae family, along with squash and different kinds of melon. These vegetables which have a refreshing taste are known to be high in water while low in calories, fat, cholesterol, and sodium Having such high water content automatically means it can help prevent dehydration. Cucumbers have been grown in India for food and medicinal purposes, and they have also been in the diet format, depending on the type, cucumber can be sliced in a salad or eaten whole as a snack, they can be consumed with or without the skin. How Cucumbers Compensate Our Diet: Consisting mostly of water and important electrolytes, cucumber can help prevent dehydration through hot climes or during and after fitness activities. It is also helpful when one adds cucumber and mint to water and can increase water consumption by making it more attractive to drink. Eating cucumbers may help support regular bowel movements. Since dehydration is a major risk factor for constipation, cucumbers can alter your water balance and make the passage of stool difficult. Therefore staying hydrated can improve stool consistency, prevent constipation and help maintain regularity. Moreover, cucumbers contain fiber, which helps regulate bowel movements. In particular, pectin, the type of soluble fiber found in cucumbers, can help increase bowel movement frequency. The American Heart Association (AHA) encourage people to eat more of fiber (also found in cucumbers), as this can help prevent a buildup of cholesterol and cardiovascular problems as a result. On the bright side, Cucumbers can add freshness and flavour to salads, sandwiches and side dishes and may also be used as a replacement for higher-calorie alternatives. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.