Femi Gbajabiamila Army arrests five terrorists in Borno, Yobe
Due to the worsening security situation in the country, the House of Representatives is advocating a special security fund outside the national budget. The resolution followed the adoption a motion entitled ‘Need for Special Intervention on the Protracted Security Situation in Nigeria’ raised during urgent matters of public importance at plenary yesterday by Mohammed Monguno (APC, Borno). Leading the debate, Monguno expressed worry that Nigeria recently witnessed unprecedented level of insecurity, which made national security a major issue for the government.He lauded the effort so far made by President Muhammadu Buhari and security agencies against insecurity in the country. Other lawmakers, who spoke on the issue, called for more assistance to security agencies to tackle terrorismThe Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, noted allegations that some Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) were funding insurgency.He recalled that the former deputy house leader, the late Buba Jibrin, sponsored a bill to investigate NGOs in the country. To this end, the house resolved to invite NGOs for identification, their sources of funding and the utilisation of the funds.
It further resolved to interface with parliaments of other countries, especially the United States of America, to remove all roadblocks to Nigeria’s arms acquisition. The motion was therefore referred to a joint committee of the house comprising of Defence, Army, Navy and Police for further legislative action. In a related development, troops of Operation Lafiya Dole have arrested five terrorists’ logistic suppliers and fighters during ‘Operation Identify Yourselves’ at North East’s military checkpoints.Spokesman of Operation Lafiya Dole, Col. Ado Isa, disclosed this yesterday in Maiduguri while briefing journalists on operations along six roads in the area. The theatre commander, Maj-Gen. Olusegun Adeniyi, enjoined members of the public to always carry their National Identity Card or any valid means of identification while commuting or passing through Adamawa, Borno and Yobe states.He said the identification operations were ongoing at checkpoints of roads of insurgency-affected states in the region, urging the residents to fully cooperate with troops to rid the North East of criminal elements.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .