 Farmers harvesting vegetables in a local farm in Lagos. 					PHOTO: FEMI ADEBESIN-KUTI  NASC had raised concerns that fake and adulterated seeds used by Nigerian farmers had made them to be among the poorest in the world. As they produce about 3.5 metric tonnes per hectare, while their counterparts in other climes produce about 11metric tonnes of food per hectare. To correct the anomaly, NASC came up with new technology tagged “SEEDCODEX” which is an electronic verification and authentication system introduced to enhance efficiency of the seed certification process to boost Farmers yield per hectare Speaking yesterday in Abuja, at the two-day sensitisation workshop on SEEDCODEX Technology, Director, Seed Certification and Quality Control Department in NASC, Dr. Ishiak Khalid, , explained that the new technology was designed to meet and exceed the needs of Nigerian famers and potential agriculture investors. Khalid said Seedcodex guarantees a smarter way to verify the genuineness of quality seeds, adding that it ensures profitable seed production industry for high farm productivity and incomes to Nigerian famers. It would also ensure easy access to certification services, efficient processing, timely communication and client friendly services.He added: “With SEEDCODEX, farming process and agro-investment is made easy and effective for both farmers and potential farmers that require the use of quality seeds for bumper yields.” “National Agricultural Seeds Council’s mandate is ushering in quality seeds in the agriculture space in Nigeria and across West Africa and other regions of the world. The Director said SEEDCODEX would ensure that seeds produced for use locally and for export and import are protected from adulteration as well as have high acceptable quality in the market place.“With the use of the technology, a farmer can confirm within a few seconds if a tag affixed to a seed package is genuinely issued by NASC through short message service (sms), the web or smart phone Apps”, he added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .