 PDP leader, Seconds. Photo: TWITTER/UCHESECONDUS  The National Chairman spoke yesterday when he handed over the governorship nomination certificate of the party to its candidates for the November 16, 2019, elections in Bayelsa and Kogi states. “Everyone in this country today is leaving in fear of either hunger or insecurity and the situation calls for all hands to be on deck,” he said. Secondus urged the Federal Government to pay careful attention to the alarm from the World Bank that the nation’s economy was going insolvent unless urgent steps were taken to address the situation.He charged the gubernatorial flag bearers in the two states to see their victory as an invitation to serve not to be masters over their people. The PDP chairman admonished them to see their victory in the spirit of “no victor no vanquished” and strive to bring all PDP families together for the challenges ahead, which is enormous.“It is not yet time for celebration; bring your people together and get to work immediately as time is of essence. A totally reformed PDP does not believe in winner takes all. Moreover, the work ahead requires all hands to be together in the two states to achieve the inevitable victory. “The transparency that greeted your primaries is a continuation of our vow to have internal democracy working in our party which was demonstrated to the world last October at the presidential primaries when PDP conducted the freest and fairest ever presidential primaries in the nation’s political history,” he stated. Earlier the National Organising Secretary of the party whose office supervised the contest, Col. Austin Akobundu (retd), presented the certificate to the two candidates and declared the process that produced them clean and transparent.The two candidates, Senator Douye Diri of Bayelsa State and Musa Wada of Kogi State in their acceptance remarks promised to work hard to carry PDP as a family to victory on November 16.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .