Arrested fellow in handcuffs The police in Ogun State have arrested a 27-year-old man, Ebuka Everest, who reportedly attacked his former employer, Theresa Nnamdi in the state. Everest was said to have tied his employer’s legs, stabbed and robbed her for sacking him. The suspect allegedly inflicted injuries on Nnamdi, who lives in Mowe, Obafemi-Owode Local Government Area of the state. It was gathered that Ebuka, who used to work at Nnamdi’s fish farm allegedly forced his former boss to transfer the sum of N40,000 into his account and took some valuables as revenge for his dismissal from the farm. Ogun Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, in a statement issued yesterday in Abeokuta, Oyeyemi said the suspect had earlier attacked the manager of the farm before he attacked his former employer at her house. He explained that Ebuka was sacked from the fish farm after he reportedly stole some items on the farm and was caught by the farm manager, adding that his dismissal infuriated him and made him pounce on his employer and the manager. The PPRO said: “His arrest followed a distress call received by policemen at Mowe division at about 4:30p.m. that armed robbers have invaded the house of Mrs. Theresa Nnamdi at Association Estate, opposite Jehovah Witness Church, Mowe and held the occupants of the house hostage. “On receiving the distress call, the DPO Mowe division, SP Marvis Jayeola, mobilized his anti-robbery team and moved to the scene, cordoned off the house and subsequently arrested one Ebuka Everest, who had stabbed the woman on her right hand before tying her legs with rope and covered her mouth with cloth, which he tore from her bed-sheets. “The suspect who worked in the fish farm of his victim before he was sacked due to his shady character, first went to the fish farm where he stabbed the farm manager severally before coming to attack the woman in her house and forced her to transfer the sum of N40,000 to his account. He equally ransacked the woman’s room and made away with her laptop, the sum of N5,000 cash, phones and other valuable before he was arrested by the police with the help of members of the public. “On interrogation, the suspect claimed to have worked with the victim for four months and that he was living with the family throughout that period. He stated that his problem started when he was swindled of his four months’ salary by an online scammer who promised to help him travel abroad but ended up collecting his four months salary and blocking him online.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .