The pundits had their day and through to prediction, Benedict Oghumah, and ex-lady captain, Princess Nkeiruka Awiaka at the weekend won the 2019 NNPC Upstream Golf Tournament held at Benin Club, Golf Section (BCGS). The two-day event sponsored by the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and its subsidiaries, featured top players from across the country, including the Group Managing Director of NNPC, Mallam Mele Kyari, who performed the ceremonial tee-off. He was represented by the General Manager, Legal/legal adviser, NPDC, I.k. Omigie. Oghumah won the handicap 0-18 men’s category, beating vice-captain, Mayer Ologbosere on countback as they both played 75 net respectively. Dr. Bola Atua, ex-captain picked the third position, while Esosa Ojomo played 86 gross to win the best gross award. Princess Awiaka continued her dominance in the ladies category as her 71 net was far better than the second and third-place finishers, ex-lady captains, Debby Otabor and Suwadetu Mahmud, who played a distant 78 net and 79 net respectively. In the men’s handicap, 19 – 28 category, Provost of Hackers 28 Kitty group, Osazuwa Ehiorobo recorded 74 net to win the category ahead of Blessing Ovbiye (78 net) and Matthew Iduoriyekemwen (81 net), who settled for first and second runners-up with ease. Omonohio Godfrey was adjudged the overall best golfer among the NNPC staff with a net score of 72, just as S. D. Moses (81 net) and Dr. Dakop Yoila (75 net) won in the hcp 0-18 and hcp 19-28 categories respectively. Other winners include Kama Hanania (68 net), and D. Ifiok (75 net), who won the NNPC guest ladies and men’s categories. It was a mixed fortune for the Emina’s family as Prof. Anthony Emina with 72 net won guests men’s category, while S. Ebunilo played 73 net to win the guests ladies at the expense of his wife, Sandra Emina, who played a net over. Sir Tony Aghedo (74 net) won the veteran men’s category, while Prof. Josephine Mokwuenyi (82 net) won the veteran ladies, just as former Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG), Parry Osayande won the super veteran men’s award. Various trophies and amazing prizes were presented to all those who distinguished themselves at the tournament that featured over 200 golfers from across the country, as well as the NNPC staff golfers.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .