• Insists On Okorocha’s Probe
• As Former Gov Claims Not In Possession Of Boats
• Ohanaeze Warns Faceoff May Lead To Anarchy 
Imo State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has described the attack on the Senior Special Assistant on Security to Governor Emeka Ihedioha, Jasper Ndubuaku by thugs allegedly hired by the immediate past governor, Rochas Okorocha as unwarranted and a slap on the state. In a statement, yesterday, by its Publicity Secretary, Damian Oparah, the party advised Ihedioha to employ every instrumentality to curtail the alleged excesses of Okorocha. Imo PDP also accused the ex governor, now the senator representing Imo West at the National Assembly, of camping over 200 thugs at his Owerri private residence, describing it as an attempt to further unleash crisis and disrupt the state’s peace. “As a party, we support every step already taken and those that will be taken by the state government to bring Okorocha to book, after eight years of mindless plundering of the state’s commonwealth.” Meanwhile, the immediate past governor’s, Special Adviser, Media, Sam Onwuemeodo said the new video trending, showing where Mr. Jasper Ndubuaku was making fresh, but totally false claims of Okorocha being in possession of speed boats donated by the Niger Delta Development Commission (NNDC) is false. “And it is our responsibility to always put the record straight to prevent the falsehood from being bought by innocent people as the truth. We also challenge Ndubuaku to publish any document to that effect, since NDDC could not have made such donations without certain documentations.” Similarly, Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide (OYC) has warned that the faceoff between Ihedioha and Okorocha, if not checked, might lead to anarchy, calling on Ihedioha to reverse the planned arrest order on Okorocha. National President, OYC, Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro said the crisis could lead to declaration of a state of emergency, where a new sole administrator would be appointed for the state.“We call on the immediate intervention of the Southeast Governors and Igbo leaders, as we ask Imo State religious leaders, traditional rulers, state House of Assemblies to join OYC to interface with Ihedioha and Okorocha,” Isiguzoro said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .