Chronic kidney disease is a long-term condition where the kidneys do not work effectively. Most people are born with two kidneys which are responsible for filtering out waste products from the body passed out as urine. The kidneys also help to control our blood pressure and the number of red cells in the blood. Chronic kidney disease is a common condition globally with about 10% of the world’s population affected and about 10 million people die every year from kidney disease. In Nigeria, about 25 million Nigerians are living with chronic kidney disease (CKD). It is much more common as we get older and in Africans and South Asians. Photo O’Grady, Michael J. and James C. Capretta What causes chronic kidney disease? Chronic kidney disease is caused by the presence of other diseases which puts considerable strain on the kidneys, affecting their function and efficiency. These conditions can be in isolation or as part of a combination. The most common causes are:  What are the symptoms of Chronic Kidney Disease? During the early period of the disease, most people have only a few or no symptoms. At this stage, only blood tests or urine tests carried out for other reasons can pick up a problem with the kidneys. However, symptoms arise in the latter stages of the disease. Kidney pain. Photo Pinterest These symptoms may include:  How can I test for Chronic Kidney Disease? Tests to assess for the health of the kidneys, as well as the extent of the disease (called stage), are usually blood and urine tests. They look at the level of certain substances in your blood and urine which are pointers to the health of the kidneys. Imaging tests such as kidney scans and a biopsy may also be used to assess the health of the kidneys. Photo: Health Magazine How is Chronic Kidney Disease treated? Chronic kidney disease is an incurable disease at present and treatment is targeted at helping you relieve symptoms and halt the progression of the disease to improve the quality of life. These treatments are specifically tailored to your needs based on the extent of the disease. In many cases, the disease is mild or moderate and well-controlled for years. Treatment includes making lifestyle changes, using medications to address some of the problems and dialysis (artificial kidney). In advanced cases, a kidney transplant may be suggested by your managing team. Regular check-ups are necessary for people with kidney disease. How can I prevent Chronic Kidney Disease? The following tips are important in preventing the development of chronic kidney disease 6. Reduce your alcohol intake: Excessive amounts of alcohol (more than 14 units per week) can cause your blood pressure and your cholesterol levels to rise. Ask your health professional for help in assessing your weekly alcohol intake.