The serial killer suspect Gracious David West, who have killed over 15 girls in different hotels in Lagos, Port Harcourt and Owerri, said, the urge to kill comes to him like hunger. The suspect, who was arrested in commercial bus en route Akwa Ibom, two days after his face was captured by a Close Circuit Television Cameras (CCTV), confessed to having carried out five killings in Port Harcourt, seven in Owerri and three in Lagos. He was on his way to Akwa Ibom when the operatives of Special Anti -Robbery Squad (SARS) trailed and arrested him in Bori, in Khana Local Government Area of the State. While being paraded and interrogated by the State Police Commissioner, Mustapha Dandaura at the State Police Headquarters, Moscow Road, Port Harcourt, the suspected serial killer, from Asari Toru, Local Government Area of the state, claimed that there is no motive behind his killings. “I don’t know what is making me kill, immediately the urge comes on me, I kill,” West said.  “After killing, I will start regretting. I even went to a church and told the pastor that I have been killing girls in hotels. The pastor invited me to see the senior pastor during a programme but I waited and couldn’t see him so I left the church and went back and lodged in a hotel and resumed killing.” The suspect further revealed that he makes the monies he used in killing other girls from his previous victims. According to him, “While the argument is on, some of them will tell me not to kill them that they have money in their accounts and can offer anything just to save their lives. “I will ask them how much? They will check it before me; when I confirm the account balance, I will collect the pin number and after the day breaks, when I must have killed them, I will go to ATM and collect the money in the account. “I will use the money and get other girls. I have killed five girls in PortHarcourt, seven Owerri and three in Lagos. I started the killing in Lagos, that was where I got money because the first girl had N52,000 in her account. After that I went to PortHarcourt, then Owerri, I returned to PortHarcourt. The last girl I killed I met her at the club. West also disclosed that he collects his victims’ phones and sells them to phone dealers in waterlines and Eleme junction in Port Harcourt. Meanwhile, the State police boss has described the arrest of the suspect as a determined effort by the command to put to an end the disturbing trend which has attracted both international and local condemnation. He said the arrest followed police directives to hotels in the state to install Close Circuit Television Cameras(CCTV). “One of the hotels in Port Harcourt who complied with our directive to install CCTV cameras in the reception and hotel corridors was monitoring the camera and saw the picture of the suspect Gracious David West and uploaded the video online and it went viral on social media,” Rivers State police commissioner, Mustapha Dandaura, said. “The hotel later reported to the police about the development and released to us the telephone number he dropped with the hotel. “We began to track him on his phone, and with God on our side, and he was arrested along Bori axis of East-West Road while on his way to Akwa Ibom, yesterday(Thursday) afternoon.” “The command’s Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), team were on their usual stop and search duties when they intercepted a commercial bus heading towards Uyo, Akwa Ibom state. “When they offloaded the passengers of the vehicle for one-on-one search, with the help of the viral photo, they saw the suspect in the same attire (strip T-shirt and blue trousers), on the video, which he is also putting on now. “The SARS team called my attention to it on phone and I asked that they brought him straight to my office. They brought him in handcuffs, the moment he stepped into my office, I called him by his name, David-West, he answered, and I said to him, ‘Welcome to my office.'” “He then said to me, ‘Please sir, I am ready to tell you the truth, I don’t want any problem.'” “It was at that point that I directed that they unlock his handcuffs so he could relax and be free to talk and give me all the necessary information that I need.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .