Center for International and Strategic Studies (CISS) has accused foreign media of propagating falsehood with the sole aim of tearing the country apart. The think-tank dedicated to conflict research in developing countries asserted this after examining the Boko Haram insurgency, exploring the possible factors behind its continuous existence. In a detailed report yesterday entitled ‘Foreign Links and the Weaponisation of Falsehood Against Nigeria and Humanity’ signed by Country Representative, Dr. Ifure A. Ifure, CISS analysed the role of foreign media in furthering insurgency. It had undertaken a study tour of the North East with particular reference to strategic places and institutions, which dominated the narrative on the war since its inception in 2009. Among others, the think-tank observed, “The Boko Haram narrative as propagated in the media by some external links is an attempt to label the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari as incompetent and lacking the political will to handle the crisis in the North East region. “It also observed that the use of propaganda by the Boko Haram terrorists is one of their principal weapon of war against the Nigerian state and in connivance with select international news mediums such as AFP and Reuters.” The centre reckoned that in an attempt to elicit cooperation from locals, “non-governmental organisations often promise groceries and money to anyone willing to speak against the Nigerian army in operations, and forcing them to make false allegations of rape, deprivation, brutality and other vices.” The team reportedly noted that the bulk of the news emanating from most of the foreign media on the North East were outright falsehoods with the intent to distract the Nigerian troops and to further the activities of the Boko Haram terrorists. To avert further foreign interference, the centre recommended that the Nigerian authorities must: “Begin the process of auditing the credentials of international NGOs operating in North East Nigeria to identify those that are carrying out espionage activities on behalf of some foreign interest that want to see to the disintegration of Nigeria. “Rise up to curtail the agenda of some vested international interests. “Attempt to take charge of the narrative on the state of affairs in North East Nigeria by embarking on a massive awareness campaign to expose the spread of falsehoods by foreign interest groups who are unhappy with the successes recorded by the Nigerian military in its operations in the North East.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .