Earlier this week, Atlanta entertainment mogul, Tyler Perry vowed to help the hurricane-ravaged Bahamas. The actor made this known in a social media post in which he pledged to help “as soon as I can, I will be there to do whatever I can to help you rebuild stronger and better.” In his Instagram post, he wrote: “To all the incredible people of the Bahamas who have welcomed me and called me an adoptive son, I want you to know that I am watching closely, and as soon as I can, I will be there to do whatever I can to help you rebuild stronger and better. You’re not only in my heart and my prayers, you’re in my blood. Good bless you. Stay Bahamas strong. The sun will shine again.” Tyler Perry speaks at the funeral for Aretha Franklin at the Greater Grace Temple on August 31, 2018 in Detroit, Michigan. Photo: AFP Perry has now made good his promise as he has used his resources to assist relief efforts in the Bahamas during the aftermath of Hurricane Dorian. According to a report by the celebrity gossip site, TMZ, the actor used his own personal seaplane based in Nassau to deliver relief supplies to the Abaco Islands. That area was one of the hardest hit by Dorian. TMZ reported that Perry’s plane “packed with supplies” made two trips Thursday and the actor is hoping to send more supplies. His efforts brought much needed bottled water, sleeping bags, diapers and other hygiene products along with other basic necessities. During the return trips, they brought back seven passengers, including small children, a pregnant woman and others who needed medical attention, the outlet reported. The Category 5 storm devastated the islands, leaving at least 20 people dead, according to The Washington Post. People from across the world have been donating money and supplies to help the island nation recuperate from Dorian’s catastrophic damage. The hashtag “Pray for Bahamas” also went viral in the wake of the storm. We reported earlier that an actress, Racquel Bailey is set to star in a series by BET on Perry’s new show, “Sistas”. This is coming after she rented several billboards to get Perry’s attention although he responded by telling her to simply attend auditions. “Sistas”  is about a group of girlfriends who are all single. It stars KJ Smith, Ebony Obsidian, Mignon Von and Novi Brown and is directed, written and executive produced by Perry.