VP Osinbajo • Plot meant to enslave Yoruba, chieftain alleges
Indications have emerged that the alleged political attacks from the ‘South West’ against Vice President Yemi Osinbajo might not be unconnected with the politics of 2023 where the Ogun State indigene is believed to be a potential front-runner for the topmost office in the land. The Guardian yesterday gathered from a top source that President Muhammadu Buhari and Osinbajo had a one-on-one meeting on the emerging developments in the presidency before the former flew out to New York on Sunday for the ongoing meeting of the 74th United Nations General Assembly (UNGA74). While the details of the weekend’s meeting remain hidden, the source however said the two leaders exchanged notes on the issues being speculated in the media. Nevertheless, a presidency source last night disclosed that the meeting was a reinforcement of the cordial relationship between the duo contrary to the speculations of the no love lost between the two leaders. “The president and his have a very good relationship and will continue to do so,” he said. A presidential statement, which refuted the claims of Osinbajo’s alleged non-compliance with due process in the management of agencies under his office, had also indicated that there were those attempting to sow seeds of discord in the presidency. But another source hinted that the cabal in the presidency might not be deterred in their bid to look for more opportunities to
“attack the vice president, especially since there are also few other politicians in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) who have concluded that the potential of the number two man in the country in 2023 has to be severely diminished if not outright removal.” He alleged that some of these party stalwarts, especially those from the South West, were “known to be keenly interested in running for president in 2023 and sees the vice president as an obstacle.” Besides, a Yoruba leader, Prof. Banji Akintoye, yesterday alleged that the conspiracy against Osinbajo was a deliberate ploy to enslave Yoruba. He warned the ‘gang’ that the ethnic group would kick if they do not have a rethink. The historian linked the vice president’s ‘travails’ to haywire politicking to allegedly deny the South West the presidency in 2023. Akintoye spoke yesterday on the sidelines of the anniversary lecture, entitled: “Yoruba: Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow” organised by the Yoruba Heritage Group International Forum in Ibadan, Oyo State. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .