Busola Dakolo and Biodun Fatoyinbo Photo Daily Trust This week, people are around the world were taken by surprise at the incidents that affected those whom they have been able to connect with. From altering life incidents to miracles, Here is a rundown of the week: The end? Nigerian music star, Ayoleyi Hanniel Solomon better known by his performing name, Reekado Banks, in a recent interview explained that he parted ways with his brother and manager, Temi Solomon, on the business front. According to the 25-year-old singer, his decision to drop his brother is as a result of next level dealings seeing that his vision has grown and he needs people who ‘see as far as he sees’. Banks said: “I just needed somebody that’ll see as much, most especially someone that’s been there with other people (artists) but me and my brother are cool.” #Pray4MajekFashek Reggae legend, Majekodunmi Fasheke, popularly known by his stage name Majek Fashek has been hospitalised at Queen’s Hospital, London. According to Uzoma Day Omenka, the singer’s manager, he has been in the hospital since last month. Part of what he told the public includes, “As I speak to you, Majek cannot eat and cannot talk, I have to do virtually everything for him. Right now, we are in dire need of finance to survive here in London.” However, he mentioned that a philanthropist who would rather not be named has been helping them. Saved According to fellow actor and close friend Tiffany Haddish, Kevin Hart’s condition has made some noticeable progress since he was involved in a car crash. Hart who had an accident with his 1970 Plymouth Barracuda after it lost control in Malibu Hills was made to undergo spinal surgery to fuse a pair of fractures in his vertebrae. In confirmation of Hart’s wife Eniko positive remark, Haddish in an interview said, “he is already walking” before she made light of Hart’s condition by recalling an instance where he made fun of an injury of hers. Nothing is impossible A southern India woman may have just set a new world record after giving birth to twins in her mid-70s. Mangayamma Yaramati ― whose age has been reported as both 73 and 74 ― gave birth on Thursday to two little girls who were conceived via in vitro fertilization in what turns out to be Yaramatti’s first set of offspring in her 57-year marriage to her husband Sitarama Rajarao, who is in his 80s. While Yaramati described it as the, “this is the happiest time of my life,” she will not be able to breastfeed the babies. The controversy continues The rape allegations continue between Busola Dakolo, the wife of the popular musician, Timi Dakolo, and Commonwealth of Zion Assembly (COZA)’s senior pastor Biodun Fatoyinbo. After several public protests leading to his stepping down and return to the pulpit, the pastor has been slammed with a lawsuit from the Dakolos’ through the Federal High Court in Abuja. Although the court summoned Fatoyinbo to appear within 14 days, he claims not to have received the summon. The Dakolos’ are asking for apologies in national dailies among others. Maybe it’s time we get the “robust response” he promised us.   