 corruption  Presenting a lead paper titled, “Contemporary Global Security Issues: What Africa Must Do,” during a seminar at the Admiralty University of Nigeria (ADUN) Asaba, Professor Pita Agbese made a case for good governance to secure Africa. At the lecture attended by distinguished guests, security experts and students of ADUN, the participants brainstormed on old and new notions of security. Two discussants, Dr. Kunle Olawumu and Dr. Nnamdi Okonkwo also added their voices to proffer what was described as workable solutions to the security of African and Africans. Agbese, who is a professor of Political Science at the University of Northern Iowa, Cedar Falls, Iowa, USA said: “No country is free from threats, the issue is what to do to contain such threats when they come. “What Africans must do, therefore, is to among others, distinguish between global and Africa centred security issues, develop regional strategies for countering regional threats and make itself less vulnerable to global threats, while developing proactive measures against threats. “They should also ensure adequate security of the most vulnerable segments of its population, ensure that they frontally tackle youth unemployment and reduce corruption among the ruling class.  How can you not have high insecurity when the gap between the rich and poor is so wide and is still widening?” He berated poor governance, saying, “Owing pensioners is not just a security risk, but highly immoral. In fact, high on my list is bad governance. The sheer number of unemployed youths is a potential security issue. Any security that does not address these inequalities is bound to fail.” He insisted that the new notion of security is human security, which is the protection of the vital core of human lives in ways that enhance human freedoms, fulfillment and fundamental freedom constituting the essence of life and protecting people from critical and pervasive threats and situations. He dwelled on outline and discussion of the fundamental security issues facing contemporary Africa, analysis of Africa security issues within the context of global security and analysis of factors behind the continent’s security dilemma, a position that was strongly supported by the discussants and participants. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .