 [FILES] Governor Seriake Dickson  While inaugurating the Senator Inatimi Spiff-led committee at the Government House, Yenagoa, the governor described disagreements and grievances as normal in any political contest. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Fidelis Soriwei, the governor, however, stressed that what is important is the way and manner such grievances are managed in the best interest of the party. According to the governor, the PDP family under his watch in the state has always demonstrated maturity, love and resilience in handling their differences with a view to promoting the greater good of the party.He reiterated the need for all aggrieved aspirants and their followers to join hands with the PDP leadership in working for the success of the party in the November 16 gubernatorial polls. Dickson, who expressed optimism over the victory of the party, assured those embittered by the outcome of the primaries that their interests could only be better protected in the PDP than elsewhere.He noted that the people of Bayelsa State would not make the mistake of ceding their state to the All Progressives Congress (APC). “Let me say that reconciliation and persuasion are the core of the political service; politics is about reconciling and managing conflicting interests, ambitions and perspectives and sometimes even reconciling clash of egos.“The way we are in this state, everyone knows that Bayelsa is PDP stronghold. “We have just come out of a hotly contested gubernatorial primaries and as it is in life, there are always people who will have one or two grievances about their government, the flag bearer and even about the running mate that he has on his own nominated, all of these are normal things, which we must deal with at this time. “And because we know we want to keep every PDP leader, every aspirant and every supporter in the PDP family, we have set up this committee. That’s the only way we can remain strong and big and maintain our position as the foremost election winning party in this part of our country.” “We don’t want one single well-meaning PDP leader to leave to APC because this state has no room for APC to use it for RUGA. This land is completely PDP and so, our leaders have been assembling to do what they have the experience in doing all this year to promote reconciliation and peace,” he said. Responding, Spiff noted that although some party faithful are aggrieved, including members of the committee who worked for their favoured aspirants, the reconciliation process would help to strengthen and reposition the PDP for victory. According to the statement, Senator Emmanuel Diffa is the Vice Chairman of the committee while former Secretary to the State Government, Chief Gideon Ekeuwei, is the Secretary.Other members include Solomon Aguanana, Chief George Okrinya, Chief Israel Igbori, Chief Million Asangba, Chief (Mrs) Apretari Ogugu, Chief Darius Obiene and Chief Bright Ereware-Igbeta.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .