Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde (left); his wife, Tamunominini; Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Olubamiwo Adeosun; Chief of Staff, Bisi Ilaka and Head of Service, Ololade Agboola, during the interactive session with civil/public servants in the state at the Governor’s Office, Ibadan… yesterday. Gov approves N557m for council teachers’ salaries
Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has said that the state government will soon carry out verification exercise for workers to stop ghost workers in the state civil service. Makinde disclosed this yesterday in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, during the interactive session with workers in the state in commemoration of his 100 days in office. According to him: ‘”We will carry out a verification exercise. This is not to witch-hunt anybody, but to ensure that there is no fraud in the state civil service payroll system. By this verification, we will be able to save money to cater for the welfare of the workers and the generality of the people in the state. “It is not so a good news, but it will be good at the end of the day. We have to do things for the generality of the state. We must carry out capital projects and do things that will expand the economy of the state. I want to solicit for your co-operation and involvement to carry out the exercise within the shortest time.” Makinde, who commended the effort of the state civil service, said that his achievements during the 100 days in office could not have been possible without your hardworking and co-operation, saying: “You have done well within this 100 days in office. You have supported us and we would not have achieved this without you. This meeting is to tell you where we are and where we are going because where we are still going is far, so we need to do more.” Earlier in her remark, the Head of Service in Oyo State, Alhaja Ololade Agboola, urged the workers in the state to be committed to their duties and shun activities that could tarnish the image of the service, their families and the state in particular. However, Governor Makinde said he had approved N557 million be paid to some local council teachers whose arrears of salaries of about three to seven months are yet to be paid. Makinde, who disclosed during the interactive session, also revealed that the state government received a $6 million grant from the World Bank via the Better Education Service Delivery for All (BESDA) programme under the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC). To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .