Tinubu Politicians yesterday lauded the sterling principles and consistency demonstrated by the elder statesman and Afenifere Leader, Senator Ayo Fasanmi, in his over six decades involvement in politics in the country. The politicians, who gathered in Osogbo to honour the nonagenarian politician at his 94th birthday anniversary, include the governors of All Progressives Congress (APC) in the South-West, who were represented by National Leader of the APC, Bola Ahmed Tinubu; former Interim Chairman of the party, Chief Bisi Akande; Chief Biyi Durojaiye, Professors Olu Alabi and Mojeed Alabi; former Deputy Governor of Osun State, Titi Laoye-Tomori; Dosu Oladipo and traditional rulers. Former Deputy Governor in old Oyo State, Chief Iyiola Oladokun, while delivering the birthday lecture, with the theme, “Ayo Fasanmi: An Epitome of Consistency and Loyalty To Progressive Ideals,” frowned at the inconsistent nature of some politicians in Nigeria, saying that lack of consistency and loyalty was the bane of party politics in Nigeria. Oladokun commended Fasanmi for being a consistent and loyal party man, who stands firmly by the principles of his leader, the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo. He then prayed God to give Fasanmi the grace to celebrate many more years on earth and in sound health. Osun State Governor Gboyega Oyetola, represented by his deputy, Benedict Alabi, described Fasanmi as a beacon of hope and pillar of light for the younger generation of politicians and administrators. He said the unrelenting efforts and contributions of Fasanmi to progressive politics had helped to deepen democracy in Nigeria. He further stated that Fasanmi’s democratic spirit pushed him to fight against military rule and bad governance with uncommon perseverance. Akande urged Nigerian youths to always have another profession rather than depend solely on politics for survival. The former Osun State governor said the only way for Nigerian politicians to be consistent and loyal to their party was to remain engaged in their profession instead of depending on politics. He attributed Fasanmi’s political consistency to the love he has for his country and the fact that he had a profession, which he remained committed to. He never depended solely on politics. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .