 [FILES] Nigeria Police  In a statement made available to newsmen in Akure yesterday, the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mr. Femi Joseph, who confirmed the incident, disclose that the police had begun an investigation into the incident. He added that all the victims were engaged in the brawl, while the policeman, who is attached to the office of the Area Commander, was also injured in the fight and had been taken to the hospital for treatment. “There was a fight between the policeman and the boys, but we have started an investigation into the matter. All those involved in the brawl are already in the hospital receiving treatment. If at the end of the day we find our man culpable, we will deal with him because we don’t tolerate indiscipline in this command,” he said. According to eyewitnesses, the policeman, Orisadare, said to be drunk at a popular club located in Alagbaka, GRA, Akure, started harassing the victims who had come to relax at the club. One of them recounted: “Trouble started when the policeman began pestering and harassing one of the victims. It was so clear he (Orisadare) was drunk and already becoming something else at the club. He won’t just listen to those trying to tell him to take things easy. It got to a head when he started attacking everyone he could lay his hands on. In total, he stabbed nine people before he could be overpowered.” Another source hinted that only two persons were critically injured by the policeman while others only sustained minor bruises. But the PPRO refuted the allegations, saying: “This story is nothing but a blatant lie from the pit of hell, craftily concocted to deceive the reading public. To set the record straight, there was a social gathering organised by a friend to one of our policemen, Sergeant Taiwo Orishalade, at a popular eatery in Akure to celebrate the birthday of his girlfriend. “The police officer who was not on official duty and also not in uniform sat with some other invited guests at the party. At a point, some boys who apparently identified the police officer even though he was in mufti, approached him to buy drinks for them.” The PPRO revealed that the officer told them he was invited by a friend to the party and that he did not have enough money on him to accede to their request. The boys, who were apparently drunk and appeared like miscreants, insisted that the officer must buy them drinks or leave the scene, or in the alternative be ready to be killed just like they did to his colleague inspector sometime ago. “The officer pleaded with them to take things calmly, but in a twinkle of an eye, one of the boys slapped him while the other one took a bottle smashed it and stabbed the sergeant with it. Naturally, he had to fight back, which resulted in injuries to the three of them. The three of them involved in the incident including the policeman was taken to the hospital, treated and discharged.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .