 Napoli’s Senegalese defender Kalidou Koulibaly reacts after scoring an own goal during the Italian Serie A football match Juventus vs Napoli on August 31, 2019 at the Juventus stadium in Turin. (Photo by Isabella Bonotto / AFP)  The Senegal international shanked in Paulo Dybala’s free-kick under no pressure in the second minute of stoppage time to hand Juve the three points in Turin and put Maurizio Sarri’s side top with a maximum six points, leaving Napoli with nothing to show for their Herculean efforts. “It’s an own goal that hurts me because it came after an incredible comeback,” Koulibaly later said on Twitter. “I’m sorry but I have to — we have to accept it: we are strong. We have shown that. We’re going to prove it.” Koulibaly’s blunder undid all of Napoli’s good work in fighting back from the dead with less than half-an-hour left, with goals from Danilo just 20 seconds after he came on as a substitute, Gonzalo Higuain — back at Juventus after loan spells at AC Milan and Chelsea — and Cristiano Ronaldo on 61 minutes giving the reigning champions what looked like an unassailable lead. However two goals in as many minutes from Kostas Manolas and Hirving Lozano shortly after Ronaldo had made it three brought Napoli back into the game, and Giovanni Di Lorenzo sent the away fans wild with a close-range finish to set up a tense final nine minutes. But with at least point seemingly in the bag, Koulibaly made it a nightmare end for Carlo Ancelotti’s men, who finished on the wrong end of a 4-3 scoreline after winning by the same margin at Fiorentina last weekend. “It was a rollercoaster. We lost control of the game and got distracted, so they managed to equalise, but fortunately, in the end, we still won,” said Higuain, who spun Koulibaly before slamming home Juve’s superb second. (From L, Front) Napoli’s Portuguese defender Mario Rui, Napoli’s Brazilian defender Allan, Napoli’s Italian forward Lorenzo Insigne, Napoli’s Polish defender Piotr Zielinski, Napoli’s Spanish defender Fabian Ruiz and Napoli’s Belgian forward Dries Mertens, and (From L, Rear) Napoli’s Greek defender Konstantinos Manolas, Napoli’s Italian goalkeeper Alex Meret, Napoli’s Italian defender Giovanni Di Lorenzo, Napoli’s Senegalese defender Kalidou Koulibaly and Napoli’s Spanish forward Jose Callejon pose for a team photo prior to the Italian Serie A football match Fiorentina vs Napoli on August 24, 2019 at the Artemio-Franchi stadium in Florence. (Photo by Andreas SOLARO / AFP)  Ancelotti meanwhile was left to regret a “wasted opportunity” after losing in such gut-wrenching fashion. “It was not a positive performance. The first hour we didn’t do well. But despite the 3-0 we stayed in the game, we came back,” said Ancelotti. “Juventus have so much character and quality, we know that they always step up in the important moments of the season. “We wasted an opportunity today.” – AC Milan scrape opening win –
Earlier Turkey midfielder Hakan Calhanoglu claimed AC Milan’s first three points of the season after scoring the only goal in a 1-0 win over newly-promoted Brescia. The 25-year-old connected with a cross from Spanish winger Suso to head a 12th-minute winner after Milan had lost their opener to Udinese last weekend. Poland forward Krzysztof Piatek, who finished third in Serie A’s scorers chart last season with 22 goals, Lucas Paqueta and Fabio Borini all started on the bench for the side who have been banned from this season’s Europa League for breaking financial fair play rules. Dimitri Bisoli missed a chance to equalise, sending a shot over the bar with Milan goalkeeper Gianluigi Donnarumma denying Ricardo Rodriguez’s deflected shot before the break. Piatek comes on for the last half an hour in place of Andre Silva, with Paqueta replacing Calhanoglu five minutes later. The hosts came to life in the final 10 minutes with Piatek missing a chance to get a second goal for Milan, then setting up Paqueta who also drew a blank.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .