 Member, Mercyland Area CSR Committee, the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Dcn Segun Peter (l); Chairperson, Sister Bola Segun-Peter; Member, Sister Titi Osuntoki; Pastor-in-Charge of Lagos Province 44, Pastor Amos Emovon; Lagos State Commissioner for Education, Mrs. Folashade Adefisayo; Assistant Pastor-in-Charge of Lagos Province 44-CSR, Pastor Ajibola Opeoluwa-Calebs; Secretary, Mercyland Area CSR Committee, Bro. Adebola Olowookere and Member, Brother Tunde Awosanya, during donation of education materials to public schools on the Island, Lagos.  She charged the church to do more by investing in building schools for all pupils, irrespective of their background.
Adefisayo said this at the Back-to-School programme of the church, where the Province donated educational materials to over 1,000 pupils of public primary schools in Lagos Island, to welcome them to a new academic session. The educational package includes over 7,000 exercise books, 1,300 water bottles, 1,000 stationery sets, comprising pencils, pens, erasers, and rulers, among other items. The gesture, according to the church, was informed by its philosophy of adding value to its communities and the nation at large, through its numerous Christian Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives. Pastor-in-charge of the Province, Pastor Amos Emovon, who pronounced the father’s blessings on all the pupils said: “The increased passion of the Church to CSR is in obedience to the directive of our esteemed Father in the Lord, the General Overseer of RCCG, Pastor Enoch Adeboye that we should go beyond the four walls of the church building and help people living in our operating communities.” Speaking on: “Sound educational agenda for a greater Nigeria,” the Chief Executive Officer/Managing Partner, Brandzone Consulting LLC, Chizor Malize, appealed to all stakeholders to be intentional and deliberate in investing in quality education for the over 10m children population currently out of school in Nigeria. The host, Pastor Ajibola Opeoluwa-Calebs, commended the Church’s CSR Committee and members for their support and exemplary dedication, trusting that the CSR initiative will help the pupils to fulfill their potentials. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .