 Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo. Photo/Twitter/ProfOsinbajo  Osinbajo, who spoke while delivering a lecture titled, “Driving Vocational Training Through Technology,” at the eighth graduation ceremony of the Empowerment for the Less Privileged (ELP) Foundation in Lagos at the weekend, represented by Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Mr. Sunday Dare, said the 68 to 70 million youth population in the country could become a very strong asset for economic growth and development of resources are channelled towards developing their entrepreneurial and creative skills using technologies. “Skills development is the bedrock of entrepreneurship, and skills-based entrepreneurship is sustainable. Empowerment in skills for entrepreneurship can close the gap in society. It can help reduce social vices,” he said. Vice President categorically advised the 220 vocational graduates of the empowerment scheme to employ technologies in their businesses, as this would make their products and services very competitive. Dr (Mrs.) Sanwo-Olu, represented by Mrs. Abiodun Ajanaku, also harped on the inevitability of technology in today’s world of skills acquisition, development and empowerment. She urged the initiator of the foundation, Bishop Mike Okonkwo, to do more by making the initiative technology-driven, and urged other Nigerians to help the country in the efforts to get the youths equipped for meaningful economic uplift. The governor’s wife reiterated the commitment of the Lagos State government to job creation and youth empowerment but said the government could not surmount the challenges without the involvement of the corporate bodies and well-to-do individuals. Mr. Cosmas Maduka, while encouraging the vocational training graduates using his experience, urged them to dwell on their strengths, positive traits of their lives and experiences while consciously working on their weaknesses and flaws. “Major in your strengths, not weaknesses, and let nobody tell you that you cannot succeed. Do what you have learned diligently, run after service or product excellence, not money. Success will trail excellence,” Maduka said. He also urged them to avoid frivolities on social media, but to use such to their advantage by creatively reaching out to clients and customers using the new media. Charles Anudu, who was also a guest speaker, however, said that to use technologies to boost skills’ acquisition and employment creation, Internet penetration barriers should be removed. Youths, he said, should have access to very affordable, and if possible free Internet facilities, and urged the youths to use YouTube for learning, skills and vocational training if no organisation or foundation is ready to train them. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .