Son of former President Olusegun Obasanjo, Olujonwo Obasanjo, yesterday told an Ikeja High Court that he has been unable to serve his estranged wife, Mrs. Temitope, divorce papers. Temitope nee Adebutu, is the daughter of popular Premier Lotto magnate, Sir Kessington Adebutu alias “Baba Ijebu”. The couple were, however absent in court, while there was also no legal representation for Temitope. Counsel to Olujonwo, Mr. Olayinka Kujembola, told the court that many fruitless efforts had been made to serve Temitope. “We have made several attempts to serve her in Abeokuta, Ogun State, but it failed. Even at her residence located within an Estate in Ikoyi, the court Sheriff complained that he was unable to effect service because of the tight security,” he said. Justice Bisi Akinlade noted that proceedings in the divorce suit were always reported in the media and that efforts should be made to serve Temitope in Ogun where she works and resides. “I will adjourn this case to ensure that the bailiff serves her personally so that we can be sure that we have exhausted all options. This case is adjourned till Oct. 2 for hearing of pending applications,”Akinlade said. Olujonwo and Temitope got married on May 11 and 13, 2017 in a grand wedding, which attracted the ‘creme de la creme’ of the society. The marriage, however, came to a halt a few months later. Weeks leading to the wedding, Olujonwo’s mother, Mrs. Taiwo Obasanjo, had filed a suit at an Ikeja High Court seeking the postponement of the wedding of her son to Temitope. According to her, she had received various warnings and prophecies from men of God that her son should not be involved in any elaborate celebration before his 34th birthday, which was June 1, 2017.Justice Lateefa Okunnu in a ruling on April 10, 2017 had dismissed the suit on the grounds that the court lacked jurisdiction to hear it because Olujonwo, then 33, was an adult.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .