 Rescuers hold a body after a fire at a Koranic school that killed at least 26 children and two teachers in Monrovia, Liberia, on September 18, 2019. – Emergency services told President George Weah that 28 people died on September 18, 2019 overnight, his spokesman Solo Kelgbeh told AFP, as the president visited the site in Paynesville, on the outskirts of the capital. (Photo by Zoom DOSSO / AFP)  At least 26 children and two teachers died in the blaze overnight, the president’s office said, citing information from the emergency services. President George Weah visited the site in Paynesville, on the outskirts of the capital, and said the cause was still unknown. “We are here to encourage parents of the victims to have strength because it is painful to lose your kids in this manner,” Weah told reporters. “We extend our sympathy to the bereaved families. We don’t know the cause of the fire yet, but we will encourage our investigators to find how it happened,” he added. Rescuers in white masks and surgical gloves carried the children’s bodies in bags from the burnt-out building as crowds of people and relatives crushed together outside. The sheet-metal roof of the building, which housed a school and boarding school, was destroyed. “I was sleeping when I heard the noise outside. My wife opened the back door and we saw smoke coming from the front. We came out and saw heavy fire at the back,” said local resident Zazay. Another resident, Ballah, whose home is near the school, said they helped in the rescue efforts. “We went for water, trying to put it out. We were putting water up to 2.30 am. When the firefighters came, the fire was already going down.” “We do not know the cause of the fire,” he said. The fire struck while the children were asleep, said Fulani community official Amadou Sherrif. In an earlier tweet, Weah offered condolences to the families of those affected. “My prayers go out to the families of the children that died last night in Paynesville City as a result of a deadly fire that engulfed their school building,” he wrote. “This is a tough time for the families of the victims and all of Liberia.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .