 NSCDC  The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the agro rangers are specialised forces of the Corps detailed to protect agro allied investments of Nigerians and foreigners in the country. Speaking at the inauguration ceremony on Monday in Jos, Solomon Olasupo, the State Commandant of NSCDC, Plateau command, said that the pioneer rangers underwent intensive and rigorous training to enable them to discharge their duties diligently. Olasupo urged the trained officers to operate in their assigned designated areas with high level of professionalism and patriotism, warning that mediocre performance would not be tolerated. ” You have been trained mentally and physically for this task. Always bear in mind that as an internal security agency, we have the mandate to prevent crisis and eliminate threats before they escalate. “We have put in place machinery toward improving our early warning and intelligence gathering capabilities which include four operational vehicles for the corps, ” he said. He also urged the officers not to engage in any activity that would tarnish the organisation’s image but work toward maintaining peace and order as they were critical to economic development. In his remarks, Gov. Simon Lalong said that the agro rangers would be highly instrumental in complimenting the State Government’s efforts in the fight against crime. Represented by Prof. John Wade, the Director General, Research, Strategic Planning and Documentation , Plateau Government, Lalong urged the NSCDC to have interagency cooperation to prevent misinformation which he said, posed a great security risk in stirring up crisis. “Agro rangers must be diligent and proactive in their service while being assertive and incorruptible in carrying out your duties,” he said. He urged the officers to remain conscientious to duty despite the risk of the job, saying the state government would give them the necessary support to discharge their functions. Mr Haruna Akwashiki, the State Coordinator, Federal Ministry of Agriculture in the state, said the purpose of agro rangers was to encourage people to invest more in the agricultural sector. Represented by Mr Kenneth Watlit, the Chief Agricultural Officer in Plateau,said that increasing reports of abduction on farms, cattle rustling and clashes between farmers and herders was discouraging people to invest in the sector which had high potential of engaging unemployed youths. ” We have many civil servants retiring everyday but are scared to invest in the agric sector, hence the need to conceive agro rangers, a pet programme of the ministry, to address that, ” he said. NAN reports that 50 NSCDC officers from Plateau are presently undergoing training in Katsina as the second batch of Agro power rangers.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .