 Buhari receiving Security briefing from Service Chiefs at the State House, Abuja. Photo: TWITTER/NIGERIAGOV  Briefing State House correspondents after a security meeting presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, the police boss said dialogue and negotiation were used by the late President Umaru Yar’Adua to address militancy in the Niger Delta, a development which he said resulted in the amnesty programme for repented militants. He believes that the strategy will also bring out peace and security in the North. According to Adamu, the security situation in the country has improved since the dialogue started. He explained that the deployment of kinetic action sometimes does not solve a problem, but negotiation and dialogue. “When we are talking about peace initiative, there are a lot of things that we take into consideration. You give out something to get something. “If you remember, some years back, we were having issues in the Niger Delta, which kinetic actions could not solve until amnesty and peace initiative came up. “So, I think in the strategy to deal with challenges in terms of either security or war, there is peaceful negotiation. It is not that you are a bandit and on the course of the banditry you committed crime you must be punished when there is peace initiative going on. If you refused to accept the peace initiative, of course, you have to face the consequences,” he said. On why he likened Niger Delta militancy with the killings by bandits in the North West, he said, “It is not comparison per se, but an example of how negotiation and dialogue can bring peace. “Even in terms of war, you go into dialogue to achieve certain level of peace. So, if dialogue can bring peace, why do you have to use force? That is what I am trying to say.” To curb the spate of car theft and burglary in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Adamu said, “Currently, we have about 20 different points where we monitor on daily basis through closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras within FCT and we are expanding it to cover the remaining areas. “So one of the strategies to stop this type of crime is the use of CCTV and constant patrol for prevention.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .