Black Couple Most men will begin to masturbate in their early adolescence and continue to pleasure themselves far into adulthood, thinking about how this type of sexual activity affects your life probably doesn’t occupy much of your brain space. However, this act may have some effects on your health. Masks Anxiety Masturbation can mask anxiety when it happens too often. According to medical research, “Some men do have OCD or other mental disorders that masturbation becomes the outlet for and is used as the catalyst for other activities.” Chronic masturbation can become too frequent, creating conflict in the relationship or even physical injury, also, causing a painful erection. In regards to injury, some men can masturbate too often, resulting in rawness on the penis, or injury to the soft tissues of the penis,” Geter, an expert in male health says. “Typically, this compulsive behavior stems from an increase in anxiety or inability to manage anxiety with other coping skills.” Disrupts daily activities Some people get addicted to masturbation and this affects their daily activities. It makes them less functional with their daily activities. A doctor or counselor may suggest talk therapy to determine ways that they could manage their sexual behavior. Affects your psychological health Masturbation can increase self-confidence because you don’t have to rely on another person for sexual release and satisfaction. If you know how to please yourself, it can be easier to help a partner learn how to please you, which is a win for everyone. However, according to Geter, a sex and relationship expert, if you feel dependent on your habits, you might find yourself struggling in the opposite direction. You might even rely so heavily on jerking yourself off, that you neglect to seek emotional assistance when you need it, or find other ways to manage your moods. “Since masturbation does improve mood and create a sensation of happiness, some people could begin to use masturbation too frequently and it could become an unhealthy stress reliever.” Might affect your sexual life Often, most men masturbate when they are single. However, once they have a new partner, men may experience trouble achieving orgasm and ejaculation since the vagina or rectum offer a different feeling than a hand. Even your partner’s hand is not the same as your hand. Unconsciously, you are expecting a certain type of stimulation, which might not be possible and may leave you and your partner in a confusing situation sexually.