• Warns NURTW against public disturbance
Operatives of the Lagos State Task Force who were on night patrol at Oshodi have nabbed two persons for allegedly stealing a tricycle at Ifo area of Ogun State. Chairman of the agency, CSP Olayinka Egbeyemi, disclosed that preliminary investigation revealed the suspects, Sodiq Sulaiman and Saidi Ibrahim, stole the tricycle with registration No JJJ-706-QF from where the owner parked it on the road lay-by at Ifo area of Ogun State. 
 
Egbeyemi said: “It was after they refused to stop that our officers ran after them before they were caught at Cappa after abandoning the tricycle on the road.”Egbeyemi who urged residents to take proper care of their belongings however hinted that during these ‘Ember months’, officers have been deployed to strategic locations across the state to protect life and properties of the citizenry.
 
One of the suspects, Sodiq Sulaiman, an ex-convict, confessed that the tricycle was stolen at Ifo and it was being taken to one ‘Mallo’ at Idi-Oro for sale at an agreed sum of N40,000 before they were arrested at Oshodi. 
 
According to him, “I was just released from Kirikiri prison last month where I spent seven months for not being able to produce a commercial tricycle given to me on hire purchase by the owner. I was trained as a tricycle mechanic for four years at Abekoko area of Oyo State before I came to Lagos in 2017 and started stealing phones, bags including tricycles with one Saheed Ibrahim whom I met at Akala area of Mushin.” The second suspect, Saheed Ibrahim, a bricklayer, revealed that before both of them started stealing tricycles, they specialised in using motorcycles to rob innocent members of the public at night. “We had stolen and sold more than 55 phones, jewelry, laptops and seven tricycles to one Mallo at Idi-Oro area of Mushin. We sold all our stolen items to him.” In a related development, the Lagos State government has warned members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) to conduct their activities in a peaceful manner and not to disrupt the peace of innocent members of the public.
 
A statement issued by Egbeyemi warned all members of the NURTW across the state to always conduct their activities in a peaceful manner as anyone caught fomenting trouble would be severely dealt with in accordance with the law.He confirmed that 11 members of the union were arrested at the weekend for causing mayhem around Yaya-Abatan Garage at Ogba. Egbeyemi revealed that dangerous weapons such as axes, diggers, broken bottles and cutlasses were recovered from all those arrested in connection with the mayhem.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .