 Mrs. Elizabeth Akinola  She and her husband, Felix Babalola, who is currently on the run, were said to have beaten Testimony to death at Iro Street, Akure in August over alleged deliverance from demonic spirits.According to the police prosecutor, Sergeant Abdul-Lateef Sulaiman, they committed a crime that is contrary to and punishable under section 357 of the criminal code cap 37 vol.1, Laws of Ondo State of Nigeria 2006. Suleiman, who filed a seven-paragraph motion of notice, prayed the court that the defendant be remanded in prison custody. While addressing the defence counsel, Israel Balogun, opposed the application made by the prosecutor.Balogun pleaded that the court should give his team more time to file a counter-affidavit as he was served within short notice, which was not granted. The presiding judge, Magistrate Victoria Bob-Manuel, ordered the remand of Akinola in prison custody pending the outcome of advice from the office of the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP). She adjourned to October 9.Meanwhile, a state high court has sentenced a 26-year-old man, Saliu Oladayo, to death by hanging for killing his 19-yead-old girlfriend, late Confidence Ebere. The incident happened last year May as the convict stabbed the deceased, Ebere, to death at Oshinle Quarters, Akure, over a disagreement that ensued between them. Oladayo was said to have initially escaped from the scene but was later arrested and handed over to the police for prosecution. He was subsequently arraigned for prosecution at a magistrate court but later transferred to the high court. The court affirmed that he committed the offence, which was contrary to Section 316 and punishable under Section 319(I) of the Criminal Code cap 37, Vol. 1 laws of Ondo State of Nigeria, 2006. It added that the circumstantial evidence and autopsy report revealed that “Saliu Oladayo, a secondary school leaver, stabbed the deceased on the left side of the chest and her left hand with a kitchen knife during a misunderstanding at No 2, Dele Ojo Quarters, Akure at about 2:00p.m. on May 15, 2018.”  While pronouncing the death sentence, the trial judge, Justice Ademola Bola, declared that Oladayo was found guilty of the offence and sentenced him to death by hanging.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .