 [FILES] David Umahi, Governor of Ebonyi State.  The council insisted that the attack was an attack on Igbo nation, stressing that if the incident had happened in another region, the presidency might have acted differently. The NUJ stated this in a communiqué signed by the state Chairman, Comrade Tony Nwizi and Secretary, Nnamdi Akpa and issued yesterday after its congress at the Dr. Sam Egwu Press Centre Abakaliki. In the communiqué, it condemned the invasion, which was linked to the ban on movement of armed herdsmen in the region by the South East Governor’s Forum, headed by Umahi. It insisted that if there was any investigation on the invasion, the Presidency and the IGP should have made it public knowledge. The council also congratulated Umahi on his recent victory at the state’s Election Petition Tribunal and urged him to sustain the developmental strides of his administration. It also lauded his effort in securing Federal Government’s approval for the construction of International Airport in the state, saying the project, if completed, would boost the state’s economy. Besides, a former IGP, Sir Mike Okiro, has advocated an urgent national security summit to enable stakeholders to brainstorm on new strategies to tackle insecurity in the country. Okiro made the suggestion in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) yesterday in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. His words: “Nobody knows it all, every career has development experts, so, I think the present state of insecurity in the country shows that there is an urgent need for security experts to brainstorm and add value to their mission. “I think the summit will avail security experts an opportunity to synergise, dialogue and even introduce new strategies for a collective task. I recommend that relevant bodies and officers with experience should participate in the proposed summit.” Meanwhile, the Enugu State government said it has purchased 360 security automobiles comprising 260 Siena vehicles and 100 Hilux vans to be distributed to security agencies, vigilance groups and forest guards in the state. Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi disclosed this while conducting newsmen round the vehicles at Government House, Enugu. Ugwuanyi said the 260 vehicles would be distributed to all neighbourhood watch groups and forest guards, while the Hilux vans would be given to the army, police and Nigeria Security and Civil Defense Corps (NSCDC). The governor said the state government had also placed order for security motorcycles and bicycles, adding that the move was to further strengthen the state’s security architecture. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .