The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) says it is on 24-hour standby with over 100 personnel deployed to ease traffic on Lagos-Ibadan expressway. Julius Berger, a construction company, had on Monday announced partial closure of the Lagos-Ibadan expressway to carry out reconstruction of Berger Bus Stop to Kara Cattle Market section of the road. Mr Samuel Obayemi, the FRSC Zonal Commanding Officer-in-Charge of Ogun and Lagos State, made the disclosure during a duty tour of the corridor. According to him, FRSC personnel are 100 per cent on the ground to control traffic with other traffic agencies to maintain sanity on the road. “We are 24 hours standby to control traffic and to evacuate any faulty vehicles that can cause traffic jams on the road. “Motorists should be patient and follow the rules of the traffic at the moment to avoid total gridlock at the corridor,” he said. Obayemi, who is also an Assistant Corps Marshal, said that about 25, 000 vehicles entered Lagos State daily and advised articulated vehicles to consider other road users to avoid crashes on the road. The FRSC boss said that efforts were being made to ensure that travelers arrived at their destinations on time without delay on the expressway. Mr Innocent Etuk, the Zonal Head of Operation in-Charge of Ogun and Lagos State, also appealed to motorists to maintain lane discipline while on the road, especially when approaching the ongoing construction axis. Etuk said that two lanes had been created to accommodate incoming vehicles to Lagos to ensure the free flow of traffic along the expressway. “The only thing we want the drivers to do is to comply with directives from traffic officers. “We are on the road to maintain orderliness, especially today, Friday, when the religious body holds different programmes along this corridor. “But we are on top of the situation, our personnel is on standby to ensure a free flow of traffic,” he said. NAN reports that vehicles, both inbound and outbound Lagos, used the outbound lane up to the Isheri Junction where it is redistributed to the normal lanes. The partial closure will last for four months to complete the inward and outward axes of the expressway.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .