Delta State Governor, H.E Sen. Dr. Ifeanyi Arthur Okowa. Photo/Twitter/GovIfeanyiOkowa Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State has called for an effective fire-fighting service to minimise loss of lives and property nationwide. Inaugurating two trucks procured by the Federal Fire Service (FFS) for Zone K comprising Delta, Edo and Bayelsa yesterday in Asaba, the governor hailed the organisation for choosing the capital as its zonal headquarters. He pledged that his administration would cooperate with the service to enable it discharge its responsibilities efficiently. A statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Olisa Ifeajika, quoted the governor as advising that for any outbreak of fire, it was important for speedy efforts to be made to mitigate damage thus the place of an efficient agency to handle the arduous task. Okowa said: “The donation of the fire-fighting trucks and the choice of Asaba as headquarters of Zone K are a welcome development. We will be of assistance whenever there is fire outbreak even in our neighbouring states. “We have an efficient fire service in the state and this addition, which would see the FFS playing complementary roles, will be of great assistance to us as it will help to attend to vast areas in the state bearing in mind that we have a lot of urban areas.” He added that “there is a lot of destruction when you have a fire incident that is not checked. And no one knows the extent of damage a fire incident could cause at any given time, hence prompt response is key.” Earlier, the service’s Comptroller-General, Dr. Ibrahim Liman, said: “FFS, as the apex fire-fighting organisation in Nigeria, monitors developments in the fire services (industry) across the country, especially as it relates to the preparedness status of mobile and fixed fire-fighting assets. “It also evaluates the strength and quality of firefighters in the public sector. We know that only a few of the states that own fire services have done fairly in this regard, and Delta stands out going by the records available to us.” “We are aware that your (Okowa) administration has sustainably rehabilitated and upgraded firefighting equipment and infrastructure across the state.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .