 Specifically, the Country Director of ActionAid, Mrs. Ene Obi was quoted as saying that ‘‘corruption kills more Nigerians than malaria and the HIV/AIDS diseases.’’  Every person who had aspired to lead Nigeria had been harping on the narrative of ‘the trouble with Nigeria’ by offering corruption as either the first or the second in order of severity. Even military usurpers of constitutional governments have used corruption index to justify their acts of treason.  A people denied good health are being killed physically; a people denied good education are being killed mentally, and people denied adequate, regular power supply, good transportation system, and other infrastructural necessities that facilitate productive and gainful life are being killed economically and emotionally.  And needless to say, if the human asset is the most important asset of a nation, it goes without saying that the nation that suffers corruption in these forms, besides other manifestations, is being impoverished to death by its parasitic exploiters. It is no wonder that Nigerians have sunk into such level that the country has earned the tag of ‘poverty capital’ of the world.  Furthermore, people denied the opportunity to earn a decent living through fair and honest work suffer, ipso facto,  a moral violation of their rights and they would be forced to seek alternative, opaque means to survive.  The party also promised ‘‘Reform and strengthening of the justice system for efficient administration and dispensation of justice along with the creation of special courts for accelerated hearing of corruption, drug trafficking, terrorism and similar cases of national importance.’’ The APC even promised to ‘‘Amend the Constitution to remove immunity from prosecution  for elected  officers in criminal cases.’’  Above all else, the party promised ‘change’ from the bad ways of governance to a better, more transparent and more efficient way. The electorate believed it and voted it into power. 
 
What is more, Buhari promised in his 2015 inaugural speech to ‘‘tackle head-on’’ the corruption and the other ‘‘enormous challenges’’ that his new government inherited from the Jonathan administration. He promised to ‘‘improve the standards of our education,’’ to ‘identify the quickest, safest, and most cost-effective way to bring light and relief to Nigerians.’’ 
 
A nation progresses or regresses on the quality and values of its leadership. Credibility, trustworthiness are aspects of the integrity most necessary for a leadership worthy to be so-called.  The reputation of Nigeria in the eyes of the outside world remains unenviable, first and above all else, because its leaders have repeatedly proved less than trustworthy.  
 
It can be argued that integrity-deficit is the worst form of corruption because it grants a man to do what he wills (as long as it serves his selfish, narrow purpose) instead of what he ought such as he is on oath obligated to do. Mrs. Obi’s somewhat metaphoric statement that corruption is a worse killer of Nigerians than diseases of the body is not at all out of place. But, as proposed above, it can only be cured by the firm commitment of every citizen at every level of society, to do what he ought to do for his country and not what he wills. If corruption is not to kill Nigeria therefore, Nigerians must kill corruption now. In the main, it should be noted too that corruption has been noted as a major reason insecurity too has become another bad ulcer that thrives on the medications applied to it. So, the earlier the authorities take the war on corruption beyond media trials that the nation has perceived, the better for us.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .