 NASFAT Women Affairs Secretary, Alhaja Samiat Mumuni (left); Lagos State First Lady, Dr. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu and wife of Lagos State Deputy Governor, Mrs. Oluremi Hamzat during 20th yearly NASFAT Women’s Week at NASFAT Islamic Centre, Aseese, Lagos-Ibadan Expressway  According to him, all foreigners-hate and the religions-hate activities in forms of “xenophobia” and “Thriskia phobia” all over the world must be condemned. He therefore called for peace and peaceful coexistence, stressing that humanity generally has common origin.He advised and cautioned Nigerians on the retaliatory attacks on businesses and concerns that have South African affiliation. “Muslims and Nigerians at large have to be reminded that, the ideal reaction when wronged is not only to forgive and be patient, but to retaliate evil with goodness, according to Quran 41 verse 32”.“And not equal are the good deed and the bad. Repel [evil] by that [deed] which is better; and thereupon the one whom between you and him is enmity [will become] as though he was a devoted friend.” He corroborates with the saying of the Noble Prophet Muhammad thus, “The first cases to be adjudicated between people on the Day of Judgment will be those of bloodshed. Killing is the second major sin in Islam, and that Truly your blood, your property, and your honour are inviolable.” Onike also urged parents to call their wards to order and advised them not to be used as Guinea Pigs. “The situation where youths are made to go on rampage attacking innocent law abiding people should be condemned by all,” he noted.He has harsh words for those who are sharing fake videos and false information of purported killings and maiming of Nigerians resident in South Africa and vandalisation of their property.He referenced Quran 17 verse 36 to justify the condemnation of rumour peddling by Islam. “And do not pursue that of which you have no knowledge. Indeed, the hearing, the sight and the heart – about all those [one] will be questioned.”
“Whoever spreads a rumour that eventually leads to the injury, harm, loss of property or death of any individual would share the burden on the day of judgement,” as enshrined in Quran 4 verse 85. Onike explained further: “Whosoever intercedes for a good cause, will have the reward thereof; meaning, whoever intercedes in a matter that produces good results, will acquire a share in that good. “And whosoever intercedes for an evil cause, will have a share in its burden; meaning, he will carry a burden due to what resulted from his intercession and intention.”He alluded to the fact that, whoever is computer aware or has a discernable mind, would know that videos could be easily manipulated to achieve desired result, negative or positive. He therefore implores Nigerians to exercise restraint and caution their “fast fingers before forwarding any message via social media, as the proviso ‘forwarded as received’ does not take the responsibility of your actions from you. We should be cautious of fast fingering that could even lead to jail. “Whatever information you want to promote, subject it to the 3-filter test: What would I gain from these, Would I like the same thing said about me, and how would  the subject/victim of my information feel if he should hear about it.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .