The last surviving child while being rescued on Wednesday The only surviving daughter of the late Kasim Sakariwo out of the six people who died mysteriously on Wednesday at No. 19 Olowora Street, Mafoluku Oshodi area of Lagos State, has been confirmed dead, wiping out a whole generation. According to the Media/Publicity unit of the Oshodi Local Government Area, she died on Wednesday night hours after she was taken out of their home alongside six bodies at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH) where she was on admission at the intensive care unit. It further disclosed that policemen at the Makinde police station and the homicide section of Panti, Yaba are investigating the mysterious death of seven persons who all slept in the same room. “The police are yet to complete their investigation to disclose the cause of the death,” a source in the unit said yesterday. The girl, who is a twin, sadly joined her other twin, two siblings, a relative and her parents in the world beyond after a spirited battle to keep her alive.
It was gathered that the battle to keep her alive was lost because the damage on her vital organs was critical and devastating. The local government however gave the assurance that efforts were being made to ascertain the cause of the mysterious death that wiped off the whole family. A source told The Guardian yesterday: “We lost her late evening yesterday (Wednesday) after battling with her life at LASUTH. She really wanted to survive despite the odds but the damage to her organs was too much for her to bear. It is a pitiable and emotional moment for me seeing a whole generation perished in a mysterious manner. May their souls rest in peace.” The source further hinted that the building where the tragic incident occurred has remained sealed until investigations are concluded. “The building has not been opened for residents. The Environmental and Health Department of local government authority went there today (Thursday) to fumigate the apartment of the deceased and the whole compound to guard against any form of epidemic outbreak.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .