 Kaduna State governor Nasir El-Rufai PHOTO: TWITTER/ELRUFAI  Breaking The Code
OBSERVERS said unlocking el Rufai’s code was made easy by his direct explanation that his assertion was based on a Yoruba proverb. Going by that and for the fact that Lagos is well known for Eyo, and recalling how he agonized over the antics of political godfathers, it is easy to deduce whom the masquerade under reference was.  Shadow Battlegrounds
SOME supporters of President Buhari are in a serious dilemma over what would happen after 2023, knowing that their wish for the incumbent to do a ‘third term’ is a forlorn wish. They know that just as the party was founded around the President, the search for a successor would make or mar the party. So, the earlier they begin to send out provocations.
  
While some APC stalwarts express the hope that the presidential ticket should remain in the north to consolidate the party, others argue that such a plan would negate an understanding of power-sharing that is in place since 1999.
 
Elder statesman, Alhaji Tanko Yakassai, in an interview with The Guardian said although every political party tries to adopt strategies that could give it a victory, gladiators should recognise the fact that democracy is different from a military regime, where certain decisions are taken by fiat.
  
Yakassai maintained that political parties are not superior to the electorate, stressing that with a credible electoral system the idea of voting for kinship or on the basis of region or religion would no longer be tenable.
  
But, some APC stalwarts nursing the ambition to be president, like el Rufai have been clamouring for an end to zoning, arguing that zoning is not only absent in the party’s constitution, but also enthrones mediocrity. 
 
Yet, APC insiders confided in The Guardian that the Kaduna State governor decided on the anti-zoning argument after some stakeholders impressed it upon him that the Northwest should be ruled out in the schemes to retain the presidency in the north.  Southeast Conundrum
ON paper, Southeast looks as a possible substitute for Southwest. But some commentators point to the heavy APC base in the Southwest to doubt the possibility of the party generating enough votes from Southeast to match the figures from Southwest.
 
Rival Enugu State chairman of APC, Deacon Okey Ogbodo, said the party could have fared better in the zone if not for the influence of pretentious candidates that came to cause confusion in the party few weeks to the election.
 
Ogbodo also blamed infighting among some notable leaders in the Southeast caucus for the mediocre election result, even as he expressed optimism that the new leaders of APC in Southeast are determined to change the fortunes of the party in the zone.  Potential Casualties
GOING by Governor el Rufai’s parables, the scramble for Buhari’s successor would lead to dislocation and unhorsing of some political big names. APC national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, recently denounced the campaign posters announcing his presidential ambition in a possible joint ticket with Governor El Rufai.
  
Until he came out to deny ownership of the posters, words had made the rounds that, as far as the cabals were concerned the former Edo State governor had overstayed his welcome. It was gathered that in one of the ministerial lists drawn up by the Presidency, Oshiomhole’s name was being contemplated, as well as a possible ambassadorial posting.
  
It is also taken for granted by the Presidency that the undressing of a big masquerading would not be complete until his proxies in the party headquarters are decapitated. The forthcoming governorship election in Ondo would also give clues to what would become of Southwest APC in the buildup to the 2023 election cycle.
 
With the recent videos by Pastor Tunde Bakare announcing himself, it is also possible that in the final analysis el Rufai’s masquerade would not only be just one figure or a zone but the entire APC, which will be unclothed, to bring to an end an interesting fantasy.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .