Following the decision to withdraw the hosting right from Ghana, the African Union Commission (AUC) and the International Committee of AFRIMA have announced that the 6th edition of the All Africa Music Awards themed Feel Africa will be hosted in Lagos, in association with the Federal Ministry of Information and Culture. Billed to open on November 20, the three-day showpiece is a youth-focused music property that celebrates Africa, recognizes and rewards the work and talents of a myriad of African artists across generations. AFRIMA is committed to the stimulation of conversations among Africans and between Africa and the rest of the world about the potentials of the cultural and creative economy for real enterprise on the continent, contributing significantly to social cohesion and continental integration as well as sustainable economic growth and development in Africa by lending its voice to promotion of education and campaign against extreme poverty and preventable diseases.  Rated as the largest music, entertainment and commercial hub in Western Africa and also renowned for its bubbly and hip lifestyle, has hosted previous editions of AFRIMA from 2014 to 2017 with the support of the Federal Ministry of Information and Culture, Nigeria. The support of the Government of Lagos State as AFRIMA Official Host City in 2016 and 2017 also fostered the smooth execution of the various AFRIMA events and facilitated the seamless engagement of corporate sponsorship/partnership at various facets of event planning and execution.
 
In her statement, Head of Culture, African Union Commission, Angela Martins says, “Nigeria playing host to the 6th AFRIMA is indicative of the beneficial relationship the country has developed with the AU & AFRIMA as we use this continental awards platform to strengthen Africa’s culture industries while also promoting the cultural identity and integration of Africans. We are also appreciative of Lagos State Government for hosting 4 previous successful editions of the annual awards programs of events. We are confident that hosting AFRIMA in Lagos state, Nigeria will in no small measure constitute significant achievements for the promotion of African Union’s cultural objectives through the AFRIMA platform”
 
Meanwhile, fans, followers and lovers of African music artistes have started visiting the AFRIMA online voting platform www.afrima.org that opened on Sunday, September 1, to cast votes for their favorite 6th AFRIMA Nominees. This voting process, which closes on November 22, will determine eventual winners in the 36 AFRIMA awards categories to be recognized at the main awards ceremony scheduled to hold on Saturday, November 23.
 
Also expressing high anticipation for the 6th awards ceremony, Associate Producer, AFRIMA, Adenrele Niyi comments, “The 6th AFRIMA finds home in Nigeria for the 2019 awards ceremony and we could not be more excited for this edition. We are coming out of a super successful 2018 edition in Ghana -the 5th AFRIMA was a milestone year for us. These are interesting times for African music as more of our creatives are defying the imaginary limitations of cultural diversity to collaborate and create magical music. Many of these works would be showcased at the awards events such as the AFRIMA Music Village concert and the Main Awards Ceremony.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .