 Nigeria Liquify Natural Gas (NLNG)  The Managing Director of NLNG, Tony Attah hinted that Train-7 will move from Front End Engineering Design (FEED) to detailed design, construction, commission and delivery and this phase will attract almost $7bn with an addition of the upstream scope of $10bn which will boost the foreign direct investment profile of Nigeria.” He pledged the company’s commitment to achieve the project within four to five-year period and hoped that it would sign the Final Investment Decision (FID) by the end of October 2019. Dwelling further on the opportunities, Wabote noted: “The NLNG Train-7 will deliver 100 percent engineering of all non-cryogenic areas in-country.The total in-country engineering man-hours is set at 55 percent which exceeds the minimum level stipulated in the NOGICD Act, in line with our resolve to push beyond the boundary of limitations.” The schedule of the NOGICD Act set the minimum engineering man-hours for FEED and Detailed Engineering on LNG Facility at 50 per cent.He stated further that the benefits of the Train 7 project will extend to site civil works on roads, piling, and jetties, 100 percent local procurement of all LV and HV cables, non-cryogenic valves, protective paints and coatings, sacrificial anodes and much other direct procurement from our local manufacturing plants. The Executive Secretary explained that the target is to assemble over 70 per cent of all non-cryogenic pumps and control valves in-country, while other spin-off opportunities include logistics, equipment leasing, insurance, hotels, office supplies, aviation, haulage and many more. He confirmed that the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva has charged stakeholders connected to the NLNG Train-7 project to fast track actions related to it. According to him: “The Minister has this project as one of his focus areas to put an end to the drought of FID’s in the oil and gas industry in the last few years.”He added that apart from the job opportunities and the accruable revenues from this multi-billion dollars Train-7 project, the Minister also sees the additional tonnage of LPG to be produced from Train-7 as a key benefit to reduce importation of LPG into the country. “He is also excited that Train-7 project attracts other upstream gas supply projects required to keep the LNG train busy. The project opens up other development opportunities for some gas fields in the shallow and deep offshore acreages such as HI, HA, HK, and Opoukunou-Tuomo fields,” Wabote stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .