Lagos State Chapter of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has flayed Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu for allegedly misappropriating the state’s funds to celebrate 100 days in office, which is considered a total failure. In a statement yesterday, the state’s Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Mr. Taofik Gani, said the recent convergence of All Progressives Congress (APC) to mark Governor Sanwo-Olu’s 100 days in office was a charade, which funding must be probed as over N1.75 billion was allegedly spent on the programme. According to PDP, “Even by the governor’s own presentations, he can at best score 35 per cent mark. Such a celebration of failure ought to have been avoided by any sensitive and honourable government. For sake of clarity, we monitored the undue celebrations from preparations to the gathering. Invitations were sent to only APC chieftains from and outside Lagos and also invited were the apologists of the ruling party. “To clear this fact, the disabled persons who struggled to attend the occasion boldly and openly accused the governor of neglect. This is just as the governor described the ongoing construction of Badagry Expressway as being within the Lagos East Senatorial District as well as confusing Kogi for Kebbi in the Lake Rice project.” The PDP also said that Sanwo-Olu, while struggling to mention achievements, claimed the renovation of Primary Health Centres (PHC) and construction of 14 classrooms, saying: “These are indeed projects funded by NGO and the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG). The governor, who claimed to have installed functional Wi-Fi in Lagos could not mention those areas but only promised to do so. “In the education sector, the governor admitted he has no clear blueprint when he stated that he hopes to get his cabinet approve such and also to eventually recruit 15,000 teachers.” Meanwhile, Chairman of Conference of Speakers of State Legislatures in Nigeria and Speaker of Lagos State House of Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa, has tasked Speakers of state legislatures on effective and efficient service delivery. Obasa, who stated this yesterday at a meeting of the Conference of Speakers in Abuja, urged his colleagues to get over the celebration of their victories at the polls and get to the nitty-gritty of delivering service to their respective state legislatures. The Lagos Speaker said that the financial stability of state legislatures is sacrosanct as it is the catalyst for good governance, admonishing all-new Speakers of their commitment to uncommon development in their various states and by extension Nigeria. He, therefore, implored the Speakers to make sure that the well-being of the people is paramount in their daily activities. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .