(Photo by STEFAN HEUNIS / AFP) Afenifere Renewal Group (ARG) has called on Nigerians, politicians and leaders of thought to desist from taking actions and making comments capable of setting the country ablaze and undermining its peace and stability. In a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kunle Famoriyo, the ARG noted that unguarded comments by some politicians and leaders from the northern part of the country, especially the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), were disturbing. The group said: “A situation where they are doing everything to shoot down the generally accepted zoning formula between Southern and Northern Nigeria, in electing the country’s president, is a clear case of invitation to anarchy and destabilization. “It is unthinkable to change the goal post in the middle of a match or change the rules when the game is on. This is the clear case in the on-going attempt to deny the South the legitimate right to produce the next president come 2023.” The group noted that given its fragile unity amid the constant threat of break-up, zoning remained the only fabric binding the country and giving its various components some sense of belonging. ARG said that though it was not a political party, it observed that what is good for the goose should also be good for the gander, adding that what it was interested in was fairness, equity and justice for all regions, with no undue favour for one against the other. The group, therefore, stressed the need for politicians and political leaders to learn from history, using it as guide when taking actions capable of causing disaffection and destabilising the country. It made reference to how insensitive political leaders took insensitive political decision on the June 12, 1993 presidential election won by the late Chief Moshood Kashimawo Olawale (M.K.O) Abiola, and plunged the country into deep socio-economic and political crises, from which it is yet to recover. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .