Zonal Sales Supervisor, The Guardian Group, Kevin Ugochukwu (left); Commercial Director, Judith Akatugba; Delta State Governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa; Group Chief Executive Officer, The Guardian Group, Dr. Habeeb Adekunle Quadri; Executive Head, Circulation, Ezekiel Omo; and Acting Editor, Dr. Paul Onomuakpokpo, during a visit to the governor in Asaba, Delta State. The Delta State government yesterday declared its resolve to partner The Guardian for development through its “Stronger Delta” vision. The state’s Commissioner for Information, Mr Charles Aniagwu, spoke in Asaba after the management of The Guardian Group led by its Chief Executive Officer, Dr Habeeb Quadri, visited Governor Ifeanyi Okowa. Aniagwu lauded The Guardian for its persistent role as the flagship of journalism in Nigeria, and said that the state government would partner the newspaper organisation to publicise its activities, especially as it relates to “Stronger Delta.” According to Aniagwu, “The Guardian still remains on top of newspaper publishing in Nigeria and we are glad to have you here on a strategic alliance visit for the good of the Federal Government, your medium and our government. “Your founder, Mr Alex Ibru, still lives in our mind as an illustrious son of Delta. We don’t refer to him in the past tense. He is an icon and a role model who projected the image of the state in diverse sectors and we are glad that he left a living legacy in The Guardian Group.” Earlier, Quadri said that the visit was to seek areas of strategic alliance in the state so that Delta indigenes in the diaspora and the international community could be involved in the development of the state in particular and the Niger Delta in general. He pledged the readiness of the newspaper to contribute meaningfully to the “Stronger Delta” vision of the Governor Okowa-led administration. Quadri was accompanied on the visit by the Commercial Director, Ms Judith Akatugba; Acting Editor, Dr Paul Onomuakpokpo; Executive Head, Circulation, Mr Ezekiel Omo and Zonal Sales Supervisor, Mr Kevin Ugochukwu. The Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr Olisa Ifeajika and Permanent Secretary Ministry of Information, Mr Paul Osahon, witnessed the event. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .