• S’East farmers seek legislation on ban of cattle movement in zone
The Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council (OYC) has condemned the attack on residence of Chairman, South-East Governors’ Forum and Governor of Ebonyi State, Chief David Umahi, in Abuja by unidentified gunmen. It, therefore, urged the Inspector-General of Police to fish out the perpetrators immediately.In a statement yesterday in Abakaliki, National President of OYC, Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro, said the group would not fold its hands and watch some corrupt politicians and businessmen who want to humiliate the South-East governors over their recent resolutions to flush out the activities of herdsmen in the zone. In the same vein, the Minority Caucus of the House of Representatives has denounced raid on the Abuja residence of Governor Umahi.The caucus said whereas the law enforcement agencies were free to do their job with respect to the rule of law, it was worried that the police authorities had denied foreknowledge of the operation and called for a thorough investigation. The caucus stated this in a statement signed by the Minority Leader of the House, Ndudi Elumelu, and made available to newsmen in Abuja yesterday. Isiguzoro alleged that according to intelligences report, those behind the Abuja invasion of Umahi’s residence were highly-placed politicians who were afraid of the resolutions of the South-East governors on the ban on herdsmen conveying cattle on foot.He asked IGP to fish out those that illegally invade the house of Ebonyi State Governor or else the Igbo youths would expose them for Nigerians to know the details. Meanwhile, farmers in the region, under the aegis of Igbo Farmers Progressives Union (IFPU), have asked for legislation backing the ban on movement of herders and their cattle on foot in the zone if it must be effective. They also asked for a timeline for all states in the zone to enact the necessary legislation to enforce the resolution so as not to end up like previous resolutions taking by the governors of the zone that were not implemented. In a statement signed by its Chairman, Chief Maxi Okwu and Secretary, Uchenna Nnadi, after their meeting in Enugu yesterday, farmers in the zone, who expressed gratitude by the seemingly response of the governors to the menace constituted by herdsmen in the zone, said the resolution was hinged on pious hope and not backed by legal deterrents. “So long as there is no positive action by way of legislation through our five state Houses of Assembly, all the measures will end up as another paper tiger,” the statement said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .