Onyekachi Eke Digital solutions will provide the much-needed boost to strengthen national economy and position businesses to growth, experts say. The consul manager of IE School of Human Sciences & Technology, Juan Moreda Otero, who stated that knowledge, commitment and entrepreneurship qualify African entrepreneurs, maintained that with technology, African entrepreneurs would do better. He said: “Africans are entrepreneurial, knowledgeable, and committed but they need technology to boost businesses. Nigerian entrepreneurs, in every area, are eager to embrace innovations, and with the help of technology, such idea is the requirement for a successful business.” Director of IE West Africa region, Onyekachi Eke, noted that the Digital Solutions Venture Day in Lagos was designed to identify and support start-ups that had the ability to create innovative digital-based solutions to everyday problems faced by businesses, so as to improve their operations through technology. “With the first edition of Digital Solution venture day in Lagos, start-ups will attract investment that would be needed in their businesses, starting from the scratch to economic effective sizes through the use of technology.” The Managing Director of Lagos Offshore Logistics Base, Dr. Amy Jadesimi, said Africa had the growing population that could create technology base jobs that could as well stand the test of time and strengthen economies. “Over the years, with the teaming population of African countries, millions of new jobs need to be created and sustained. This is targeted to technology, following the Sustainable Development Goal 8 that calls for decent work and economic growth. “The job creations we are talking about are for the younger generations. They are the ones to create these jobs, because there are about $8 trillion in the world, and African entrepreneurs should tap into this opportunity.” she added. On his part, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Gokada, Deji Oduntan, spoke on the need to utilise technology in solving problems, also explaining the steps for start-up businesses, and the place of sustainability in business. He said: “Before you talk about the commercialisation of technology, one must first of all understand the people you serve and what their problems are how to solve that problem, and identify the kind of Technology that would solve such problem.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .