Odike disagrees with Abe over caretaker committee
The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has reiterated its resolve to ensure a level-playing field for those vying for various positions in the Rivers State chapter of the party. The APC Acting National Secretary, Mr. Victor Giadom, who met with Peter Odike, a founding-father of APC in Rivers State, stated that the measure is required to upstage the ruling People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the state in the 2023 polls. The APC chief, who expressed gratitude to the role being played by Odike to reconcile warring members of the party in the state, believed that it would not be in the best interest of Rivers State to remain in the PDP any longer.He urged the warring parties in the state to sheathe their swords and put aside their personal interest in the best interest of the party. Odike, who applauded the party on the decision to settle the crisis of the party in Rivers State, pledged to co-operate with the caretaker committee, headed by Mr. Isaac Abot Ogbogbula, to achieve the objective.He, therefore, admonished the caretaker committee to be fair, democratic and firm in the discharge of its duty just as he urged all APC members to embrace the opportunity that has been provided for us to be the formidable party in the state. He noted: “In the coming days, I will once more be meeting with Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi as well as other leaders and stakeholders of our party to ensure that we do not miss this golden opportunity to be the great force that we are. Like Apostle Paul said, “shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? God forbid. It is time we think Rivers State and Rivers APC, and compound our forces.” However, Odike position was in sharp contrast with that of a section of APC stakeholders in Rivers State led by Senator Magnus Abe who argued that the party is yet again treading the same route of exclusion and disdain for the rights and feelings of party members that plunged the Rivers State’s chapter of the APC into needless crisis that resulted in the party being denied participation in the last general elections in the state. Abe had rejected the caretaker committee on the basis that it was clearly an orchestration to deepen the woes of the party.He said: “As critical stakeholders, and bearing in mind the circumstances of Rivers APC, we were neither consulted by the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party in its decision to appoint a caretaker committee in Rivers State nor does the committee reflect the diversity of the party in the state.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .