 President General of Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief John Nnia Nwodo. Photo/Youtube  President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief Nnia Nwodo, in a statement, decried the attitude of South Africans towards Nigerians, stressing that the retaliatory measures must address specific South African assets in the communication, oil, banking and aviation sectors of the country. Nwodo said: “The xenophobic attacks on Nigerians and other Africans in the Republic of South Africa has been persistent, provocative and criminal. It smacks of absolute ingratitude on the part of a country Nigeria sacrificed so much for. It promotes divisive local conversations that give our government an opportunity to dramatise our unity of purpose. “The Federal Government must be courageous enough to announce retaliatory measures that will make it clear that enough is enough. Such measures must address specific South African assets in Nigeria especially in the communication, oil, banking and aviation sectors. Not to do so will portray us as weak, encourage a reoccurrence of these dastardly attacks in the future and leave us a deeply angry and divided nation. Ohaneze Ndigbo Worldwide is anxious to see the Federal Government do the right thing this time around.” Meanwhile, pro-Biafra agitators, the Movement for the Actualization of Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB), has frowned at the alleged low pace and insensitivity of the Federal Government in dealing with the killings of Nigerians in South Africa. MASSOB alleged that President Muhammadu Buhari was adamant and unconcerned towards the killings in South Africa because of his pathological hatred and Islamic fundamentalism against the Igbo and Christians in general. MASSOB in the statement by its leader, Uchenna Madu, explained that there was no justification for the attitude the Federal Government had shown on the matter so far than the fact that majority of those concerned are Igbo.He said: “How does the Igbos expect Buhari to protect their lives and properties in South Africa from sponsored xenophobic attacks against his perceived enemies, the people of Biafra?  The President of Nigeria is not clueless or lack political determination to act fast in protection of his citizens from any threats to their lives. “MASSOB remembered how fast Buhari acted with Zainab Aliyu in Saudi Arabia who was arrested for trafficking tramadol and other hard drugs which contravened the laws of Saudi Arabia.“There are several effective diplomatic steps he (Buhari) can implement immediately against the government and people of South Africa if truly he was outraged by this xenophobic killings.” The group advised Igbo political, religious, traditional, opinion and self-determination leaders to stop believing or depending on President Buhari for the protection of the lives and property of Ndigbo both in Nigeria and in the Diaspora, alleging that he does not believe or will ever admit that Igbos are part of Nigeria. “The sheer closure of diplomatic ties between Nigeria and South Africa and recalling of their envoys are mere actions to deceive our people. No meaningful or acceptable results will ever come out it. In a few weeks, Nigeria and South Africa will resume their friendly diplomatic relationship against the blood of innocent and peaceful Igbo Biafrans,” Madu noted. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .