 Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo (middle); flanked by Akwa Ibom State Governor, Mr. Udom Emmanuel (second right); Deputy Governor, Mr. Moses Ekpo (right), and Presidential Aide on Niger Delta Matters, Senator Ita Enang (left), when he commissioned the Kings Flour Mill at Mkpok/Okat , Onna Local Council, yesterday, as part of activities commemorating the 32nd anniversary of the creation of the state  Speaking yesterday during the commissioning of Kings Flour Mill, a plywood factory in Onna Local Council, and digitised power substation in Ekim, Mkpat Enin Local Council of Akwa Ibom State, Osinbajo commended the state government for it’s pacesetting role in taking advantage of the Federal Government’s Ease of Doing Business to industrialise the state. “Today we are here to do something more exciting, innovative and foresighted, all instituted by Governor Udom Emmanuel.”We need power, infrastructure and right environment to bring in investors, so it is important that any state government that wants to join and partner with the Federal Government in bringing investors to provide infrastructure that would make it easier for businesses to come into Nigeria. “I want to congratulate Governor Emmanuel for partnering with the FG so effectively by providing an enabling environment and infrastructure, which investors can come to do business”, he said. The Vice President, who commended Emmanuel for the innovative style of his administration, expressed the hope that the plant would boost local agricultural production and provide employment to youths in the area.Emmanuel in his remark said the flour mill, in addition to being one of the promises of his campaign, is strategic because its product would touch the heart of the grassroots and used by all classes of people. The Ekim Power Station, he said is part of the state government’s Power For All Initiative meant to ensure that the entire state is connected to the National Grid and has uninterrupted power supply by 2021. Emmanuel, who said that political distractions would not discourage him from achieving his set targets for the state, commended Osinbajo for always identifying with the state and his commitment to the economic development of the state. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .