Headache Headaches are common to so many, often, because of stress and it could be symptoms of other ailments. However, it has been advised by medical practitioners to avoid taking medications often, especially pain relievers for headaches. The question is, how do you tackle headaches when it occurs too often? There are home remedies for headache and some are below: Take water Often, when you are dehydrated, it might cause headache, so, when headache occurs too often, you can take some water. According to healthline, drinking water has been shown to relieve headache symptoms in most dehydrated individuals within 30 minutes to three hours. Also, being dehydrated can cause impaired concentration and cause irritability. Reduce intake of alcohol Too much intake of alcoholic drinks can trigger migraines in about one-third of those who experience frequent headaches according to medical researches. Also, alcohol acts as a diuretic, causing the body to lose fluid and electrolytes through frequent urination. This fluid loss can lead to dehydration, which can cause or make headaches worse. If you consume alcohol too much, it will affect your health. Sleep Often, sleep deprivation cause headaches. As stated in healthline, one study compared headache frequency and severity in those who got less than six hours of sleep per night and those who slept longer. It found that those who got less sleep had more frequent and severe headaches. However, getting too much sleep can also cause headaches, so the important thing is to get adequate sleep, not too much and not too small. Try a cold compress Applying cold or frozen compresses to the neck or head area decreases inflammation, slows nerve conduction and constricts blood vessels, all of which help reduce headache pain. To make a cold compress, fill a waterproof bag with ice and wrap it in a soft towel. Apply the compress to the back of the neck, head or temples for headache relief. Please note that the medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.