 Afghan security forces walks as municipal workers gather to clean up near the crater from where a tractor packed with explosives exploded the night before at the Green Village in Kabul on September 3, 2019. – A massive blast in a residential area of Kabul killed at least 16 people, officials said September 3, following yet another Taliban attack that came as the insurgents and Washington try to finalise a withdrawal deal. (Photo by STR / AFP)  The blast shook Shash Darak, a heavily fortified area adjacent to the Green Zone and home to several important complexes including the National Directorate of Security (NDS), the Afghan intelligence service. The morning attack was also close to where the Islamic State group killed nine journalists in a blast in April last year, including AFP chief photographer Shah Marai. Farid Ahmad Karimi, general manager at Wazir Akbar Khan hospital close to the bomb site, told AFP that five bodies and 25 wounded people had been brought into the facility. “There are both civilians and security personal among dead and wounded. Five of the wounded are women,” Karimi said. On Twitter, Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid claimed responsibility for the attack, saying a “martyrdom seeker” — suicide bomber — had triggered the car bomb. Massoud Zazai, who owns a photo studio across the street from the blast site, said he was in his shop when the explosion happened. “I fell off my chair and it got dark inside the shop because of smoke and dust,” Zazai told AFP. “I went out to the scene moments after the attack, the side of the road was littered with debris and bodies.” Through the smoke, Zazai said he could hear injured people crying and calling for their mothers and brothers. “I saw at least five very badly injured, one was covered in blood and not moving. It was horrifying.” Interior ministry spokesman Nasrat Rahimi said the blast had been caused by a car bomb at about 10:10 am (0540 GMT). Growing unease 
On Monday, at least 16 people were killed in a Taliban attack on a residential area in east Kabul. The capital has been gripped by a surge in deadly violence even after the US and the Taliban reached an agreement “in principle” that would see the Pentagon pull thousands of troops from Afghanistan in return for various Taliban security promises. But there is increasing unease about the deal, with Afghans fearing it will lead to a return of the Taliban to power, and a growing chorus of US lawmakers and officials expressing doubts. According to parts of the deal made public so far, the Pentagon would pull about 5,000 of its 13,000 or so troops from five bases across Afghanistan by early next year, provided the Taliban hew to their security pledges. The insurgents have said they will renounce Al-Qaeda, fight the Islamic State group and stop jihadists using Afghanistan as a safe haven. On Wednesday, the Afghan government expressed doubts about the prospective deal, saying officials need more information about the risks it poses. Even as negotiations for an accord have entered what are widely considered to be the final stages, violence has surged across Afghanistan. On Saturday, the Taliban attempted to seize the provincial capital of Kunduz in the north and sporadic fighting has continued on the outskirts all week, while on Sunday, insurgents launched an operation in the city of Pul-e Khumri, the capital of neighbouring Baghlan province. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .