Buhari. Photo: TWITTER/ASOROCK Nigeria’s Presidency has said President Muhammadu Buhari shouldn’t be rated in the time frame of 100 days. “You don’t access a returning government according to 100 days in office because that government is a continuum,” President Muhammadu Buhari’s spokesman Femi Adeshina said on ChannelsTV’s Sunday Politics. Adesina said the assessment of a government 100 days in office is only done in the first term and not to a returning government. He said the Americans don’t apply the 100 days assessment on returning government. “Where we copied the concept of 100 days from, America, they don’t do it with a 2nd term President or Governor.” He maintained that the administration has progressed on its change promises in the first term and even if the present administration will be accessed within the time frame of 100 days it has achieved in the three key campaign promises- security, infrastructure, and economy. Buhari won the second term in office on February 23. He defeated former ally and closest challenger, Atiku Abubakar of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) with 3,928,869 votes. The president during his re-election campaign promised to “take Nigeria to the Next Level”. He rolled out an implementation plan for all projects whether they started with his administration or inherited from the previous administration Buhari also noted that his administration would hasten to fix the economy, complete infrastructure projects, improve security and put an end to corruption in Nigeria. But analysts said the president will have to get to work without delay to actualise his Next Level agenda as Nigeria is struggling with multiple conflicts, including an Islamist insurgency in the northeast of the country. The president time in power has also been dogged by questions about his medical fitness. He has spent several months abroad for treatment for an unspecified condition. Buhari, a former military head of state, has touted himself as a “converted democrat” to persuade those with misgivings that his military past was history. But in office, he has struggled to shake off claims of authoritarianism — particularly in his fight against corruption which critics say has been one-sided against perceived political opponents. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .