• Teacher arraigned for requesting nude pictures from pupil An Ebute Meta Chief Magistrates’ Court in Lagos State yesterday remanded a 17-year-old who allegedly attempted to defile a toddler. The Chief Magistrate, Mrs. Adeola Adedayo, who did not take the plea of the teenager, ordered that he should be kept at the Special Correctional Home for Boys at Oregun, Lagos. Adedayo ordered that the case file be sent to the state director of public prosecutions for advice before adjourning the case until October 2. The teenager is facing a count charge of defilement.According to the prosecutor, Insp. Chinalu Uwadione, the defendant committed the offence on August 19, at No. 20, Alhaji Gani Street, Iju-Ishaga, Lagos. Uwadione alleged that the defendant attempted to have sexual intercourse with a four-year-old, but was caught by neighbours. The alleged offence contravenes Section 262 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. Proceeding at the court took a twist when the mother of the four-year-old girl pleaded for the bail of the suspect, arguing that “they were all neighbours and she has left everything in the hands of God.” According to the girl’s mother, the boy is known to be of bad attitude and was not duly cautioned by his parents. “I was the one who reported the matter to the police station and got him arrested. My daughter is too young to have experienced this but I want to bail the boy due to pressure from member of the society, families and neighbours. Even my husband said he does not want to pursue any case with the boy’s parents. I don’t want the boy to go to prison because of me, so, I leave the case to God.” Meanwhile, an Ikeja Magistrates’ Court yesterday charged a 40-year-old teacher, Emmanuel David, for sending nude pictures and videos to his 14-year-old pupil. David was charged with sexual harassment, but he, however, pleaded not guilty. According to the prosecutor, ASP Ezekiel Ayorinde, the teacher committed the offence between August 5 and 10 in Agege. Ayorinde said the defendant often sends the young girl pornographic pictures, love messages and videos. He requested her nude pictures and videos through WhatsApp. Ayorinde said: “The defendant, a mathematics teacher, was making advances to his teenage student. He asked for her phone number and the girl, who does not have a phone, gave him her mother’s number, unknown to the defendant. The defendant started sending love messages and nude pictures, thinking he was chatting with the girl but her mother was reading all his messages. When he asked for the girl’s naked pictures and videos, the mother reported the case, and the defendant was arrested.”Magistrate B.O. Osunsanmi granted the defendant bail in the sum of N200,000 with two sureties. She adjourned the case until October 16 for mention.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .