 Android 10 is available now for all of Google’s Pixel phones, plus a selection of handsets from third-party manufacturers. Photograph: Google  Google previously named its updates after cupcake, donut, eclair, gingerbread, honeycomb and ice cream sandwich. Other updates were named after jellybean, KitKat, lollipop, marshmallow, nougat, oreo and pie. The new version of Google’s mobile operating system, came with almost 50 changes related to privacy and security. Android 10 gives you greater protection, transparency, and control over your data. Here are the five things you need to know about it. Focus mode
Ever wanted to shut out notifications from some  important apps on your phone? With the Focus Mode feature on Android 10, you can “pause” distracting apps for as long as you want with a single tap. Apps such as Gmail or the news app can be put on silence until you come out of Focus mode. Dark mode
You can now permanently run a full dark mode on your smartphone running on Android 10. Although many Android manufacturers have implemented their own dark themes, including Samsung, Huawei and OnePlus, this update by the android will go a long way to help prolong battery life as only the pixels that are not black consume electricity. But most people will enable it for aesthetic reasons. Parental controls
Google beefed up on parental control on Android 10 with a feature tagged Family Link. Parents or Guardians can set up a new phone or device for their child, link it to their account and take control over screen time limits, app installs, track their child’s usage, set time limits on specific apps and even set things like bedtime when the phone shuts off. No more excesses! Smart replies for more apps
Smart replies have been expanded from a very limited number of Google apps to most messaging apps, which uses on-device machine learning to provide you with one-tap replies to messages straight from the notification area. It can also open the appropriate app for things like an address, URL or video straight from the messaging app without having to copy or paste anything, such as giving one-tap access to navigation directions in Google Maps. Big changes for permissions
With Android 10, Google is implementing some new features for app permissions to help give you a better understanding and more control over what an app on your phone have access to. Apps that ask for your location now reveal a new pop-up asking you if you want to grant location access all the time, only when the app is being used or not at all. Android will also remind you that an app you do not use is accessing your location so you can stop it if you wish.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .