It was the end of the road for Precious Yunana ‘Diane’ Yashim, as she couldn’t make the race to the final five in the ongoing Big Brother Naija reality TV show, which is expected to end on Sunday, October 8. The Monday night twist in the Pepper Dem edition of the show, which is now in its season 4, saw Diane leave the House after being randomly picked out from an unlucky draw. The task of picking Diane to leave was performed by Frodd as the second and final part of the privilege of his Ultimate Veto Power. Although the choice wasn’t entirely in his hands as he had to pick randomly from a magic hat. To get the ball rolling, the Housemates were asked to fetch all their remaining Bet9ja Coins including the big gold Bet9ja Coin they were each given four weeks ago. The Housemates were asked to drop all the Coins in the magic hat except the big gold Coins. Their ordinary Bet9ja coins had become redundant at this point. It was a good thing some of them spent theirs when they did. Sunday night live eviction saw Ike and Elozonam leave the Big Brother House, hence reducing the number of the Pepper Dem Gang to six Housemates. However, for the grand finale, there are only five slots, which means someone had to leave. It need be noted that before the process started, a few of the Pepper Dem Gang were assured of their presence in the finale. Seyi, by virtue of winning the Head of House (HoH) the previous week, secured a spot for himself in the finale. The immunity Mercy bought for herself got her sitting in the finale, while Mike’s public save during the live eviction show guaranteed him a spot in the finale. Diane and Omashola were the only two housemates left without a guarantee, hence a decision had to be made between the two on who will bid the House goodbye. The housemates were mandated by Biggie to write their names on their gold Bet9ja coins and dropped it in a magic hat with the rest of the coins. Frodd as the Ultimate Veto Power holder had to do the job of picking which housemate to go home through an unlucky draw. This left the house in a tense moment, as Frodd reached into the sac picking again and again till he eventually picked Diane. This makes Diane the 21st Housemate to leave the Pepper Dem House. Diane as she is well known in the reality show, describes herself as an easy-going girl, whose favourite outfit is a shirt, trousers and sneakers. She stated that one of the highlights of her life was being chosen as a Big Brother Naija Season Four Housemate. The model and aspiring cook had hope to travel round the world if she wins the N60 million prize money and try to get into the entertainment industry as an actor or television presenter. A graduate of the University of Debrecen, Hungary; studying and living there was an eye-opening experience she will forever be grateful for. 