The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has alleged that President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration lacks the commitment to use education to solve the poverty problem in the country. It described the statement credited to the President citing education as a way to end poverty as a political statement. Chairman, ASUU University of Ibadan (UI) Chapter, Prof. Deji Omole, stated this yesterday in Ibadan. According to him, Nigerians do not need the President to tell them what has been proven by serious countries as a way to edge out poverty. Omole said that beyond uttering such a statement, Buhari and his team through their education policies had shown hatred to fund and offer Nigerians qualitative education. The ASUU boss, who expressed pessimism about the ability of Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, to transform education, said that the minister was not different from his employer. He stated further that Adamu had promised to declare a state of emergency in the education sector but refused to act on his words. “He is back to familiar terrain. We are also in that same terrain. He spent more than three years in his first term and made so many political statements, which were never implemented. One such statement were the fact that they were going to declare a state of emergency in the education sector and till he left office in his first term, that was not done. In fact, there was no attempt towards that direction. Rather than moving towards declaring a state of emergency, what we saw was a further reduction in the budgetary allocation to education. I don’t think anyone should expect any radical change from what happened to education in his first term and from what is going to happen. “The administration has demonstrated its hatred for education by constantly reducing the budgetary allocation to education. Most of their policies are anti-university. For example, in UI today, it is almost impossible to recruit new members of staff. People are dying as a result of excess work and people are retiring and you are not employing new people. So, I don’t expect a sharp departure from what it used to be. He does not need to tell us. We all know. All the developed countries have been able to solve their problems through education and that is why we have always been engaging different governments that the only antidote to poverty is putting adequate attention to educating the masses. No nation can ever grow beyond the quality of education given to its citizens. Nobody will come from America to develop Nigeria. Nigeria can only be developed by Nigerians themselves and they can only develop if they have quality education to grow the economy. So, it is not enough to make a political statement, you must follow it with action.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .