Does An Apple A Day Really Keep Doctor Away? PHOTO: FeedOakCliff The saying “an apple a day keeps the doctor away” was coined in 1913. It was based on rhyme in Wales: “Eat an apple on going to bed and you’ll keep the doctor from earning his bread.” Although there is no statistical proof that eating an apple every day would keep you from visiting the doctor, however, it is packed with a lot of nutrients for your body: Vitamin C – a powerful natural antioxidant capable of blocking some of the damage caused by free radicals, as well as boosting the body’s resistance against infectious agents. B-complex vitamins (riboflavin, thiamin, and vitamin B-6) – these vitamins are key in maintaining red blood cells and the nervous system in good health. Dietary fibre – the British National Health Service2 says that a diet high in fibre can help prevent the development of certain diseases and may help prevent the amount of bad cholesterol in your blood from rising. Phytonutrients – apples are rich in polyphenolic compounds”. These phytonutrients help protect the body from the detrimental effects of free radicals. Minerals such as calcium, potassium, and phosphorus. Here are four reasons why eating an apple every day is good for you: Good For Your Heart:
Apples have been linked to a lower risk of heart disease. Apples contain soluble fibre — the kind that can help lower your blood cholesterol levels. They also contain polyphenols, which have antioxidant effects. Many of these are concentrated in the peel. One of these polyphenols is the flavonoid epicatechin, which may lower blood pressure. According to this study high intakes of flavonoids were linked to a 20% lower risk of stroke. Flavonoids can help prevent heart disease by lowering blood pressure, reducing “bad” LDL oxidation, and acting as antioxidants Helps Prevent Cancer
Apples have several naturally occurring compounds that may help fight cancer. Observational studies have linked them to a lower risk of cancer and death from cancer. Additionally, one study in women reported that eating apples was linked to lower rates of death from cancer Scientists believe that their antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects may be responsible for their potential cancer-preventive effects. Does An Apple A Day Really Keep Doctor Away? PHOTO: Pexels Helps Fight Asthma
Apples contain antioxidant and anti-inflammatory compounds that may help regulate immune responses and protect against asthma. Antioxidant-rich apples may help protect your lungs from oxidative damage. A large study in more than 68,000 women found that those who ate the most apples had the lowest risk of asthma. Eating about 15% of a large apple per day was linked to a 10% lower risk of this condition. Apple skin contains the flavonoid quercetin, which can help regulate the immune system and reduce inflammation. These are two ways in which it may affect asthma and allergic reactions. Helps To Control Your Weight
Apples are high two qualities that make them filling – fibre and water. In a study, people who ate apple slices before a meal felt fuller than those who consumed applesauce, apple juice, or no apple products. In the same study, those who started their meal with apple slices also ate an average of 200 fewer calories than those who didn’t. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.