Nicki Minaj. PHOTO: Ask.fm Trinidad born American rapper, Nicki Minaj surprised her fans on Thursday when she announced her retirement from music. This is a surprising turn of event as Nicki Minaj had teased that she was working on a new album in July 2019 during her appearance on “The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon”. It appears that the hip-hop queen who has dominated the rap scene for over a decade wants to take time off music to start a family as her relationship with Kenneth “Zoo” Petty seem to be the focal point in her life right now. Last year she made history as the first woman to land 100 appearances on the Billboard 100 chart. The only other artists to have hit this landmark are Drake, Elvis Presley and Lil Wayne. Minaj has sold 20 million singles as a lead artist, 60 million singles as a featured artist, and over five million albums worldwide making her one of the world’s best-selling music artists. We will go through her impressive discography and pick 10 of her best songs. 10. “Barbie Dreams”  “Barbie Dreams” was released as the fifth single from Nicki Minaj’s fourth studio album, Queen. 9. “Pound The Alarm”  “Pound The Alarm” talks about having a good time and partying all night (as well as going to festivals/carnivals, as the music video portrays). The song entered the top ten in countries including Finland, New Zealand, Ireland, Canada, Australia and the United Kingdom. The song also charted on the Billboard Hot 100, peaking inside the top twenty and number 1 on the US Hot Dance Club Songs chart. 8. “Your Love”  “Your Love” is from Minaj’s debut studio album, Pink Friday
The song peaked at numbers 14 and four on the US Billboard Hot 100 and Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs charts, respectively. 7. “Truffle Butter” Featuring Drake & Lil Wayne  From iTunes bonus track to radio smash, the Young Money trio teamed up once again boasting their luxurious lifestyle on “Truffle Butter” in early 2015. The Nineteen85-produced banger peaked at No. 14 on the Hot 100 chart and was even nominated for best rap performance at the 58th Grammy Awards. “Truffle Butter” was the fifth single off of Nicki’s The Pinkprint studio album. 6. “Moment For Life” Featuring Drake  “Moment For Life” was the fourth single off Pink Friday, which released in 2010. The collaboration features an unorthodox song structure, in which the duo dreams about their plans for the future. The tuneful hit became the Barbie-inspired Minaj’s first number one on the Hot Hip-Hop/R&B chart and was later nominated for best rap performance at the 2012 Grammy Awards. 5. “Only” featuring Drake, Lil Wayne and Chris Brown  “Only” is from Nicki Minaj’s third studio album, The Pinkprint “Only” peaked at number 12 on the US Billboard Hot 100 and number one on the US Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart. The song received a nomination for Best Rap/Sung Collaboration at the 58th Grammy Awards. 4. “Chun-Li”  “Chun-Li” is the lead single off Minaj’s fourth studio album, Queen.
The song has peaked at number 10 on the US Billboard Hot 100, reached the top 20 in Canada, and the top 30 in France and the United Kingdom. It won a Best Hip-Hop Video award at the 2018 MTV Video Music Awards. 3. “Starships”  “Starships” serving as the lead single off of Pink Friday: Roman Reloaded. The dance record debuted in the top 10 on Billboard’s Hot 100 chart after its 2012 Valentine’s day release and stayed there for 21 weeks straight. 2. “Anaconda”  The taboo “Anaconda” visual created a lane for itself within the culture, as critics had a tough time decoding its artistic value, as the video racked up over 19 million views in its first 24 hours on the internet. Combine that with the track’s scandalous art-work and Minaj nearly broke the internet once again. 1. “Super Bass”  The electronic influenced record became one of Pink Friday’s stand-out tracks after it was sent to radio and became an official single on April 5th, 2011. The booming tune peaked at No. 3 on the Hot 100, making it the highest-charting solo record by a female artist at the time since Missy Elliott’s “Work It” in 2002.  Songs are ranked based on performance on Billboard chart.