A school premises After a long holiday spanning nearly two months, nursery, primary and secondary school pupils resumed in their large numbers for a new academic session, heeding the directive of the Lagos State government that all public and private schools in the state should resume for the first term of the 2019/2020 academic session on Monday, September 9. This is in adherence to the Uniform School Calendar approved by the state government. From all parts of Lagos, the pupils stormed the streets in their school gears like newly sewed uniforms, bags and textbooks, while chatting heartily with friends on their adventures during the holidays coupled with the excitement and anticipation of a new class. Unlike in previous sessions when the first week of resumption is a dry and drab affair with little or no serious activities, in many of the schools monitored across the state, it was serious business going on in both the public and private schools. Mrs. Ibitope Opeyemi, the head teacher of Estate Primary School, Abesan in Ipaja, told The Guardian that as at Tuesday, three-quarters of their enrolled students were already back to school and they conducted a welcome test on the second day of resumption. According to her, from Wednesday September 11, the Federal Government will begin giving pupils of Primary 1 to 3 free food in public schools. She urged parents to strive hard to provide necessary materials useful for their wards in school like textbooks, exercise books, pen and other writing materials. “Some of the students didn’t come with their books and they had to be given books so they won’t slow down other students. Also, we are still in the rainy season, so parents and guardians should ensure their children put on appropriate underwear.” Adebayo Bodunrin, a student from Abesan Comprehensive Junior College said majority of his classmates are back to school and took the welcome test, which will be added to their continuous assessment for the term. Meanwhile, the Tutor General/Permanent Secretary Education District 1, Titilayo Margaret Solarin, has charged school principals, teachers and students to keep the fire burning in order to maintain the enormous successes recorded by the district in recent years. Education District 1, which oversees Agege, Alimosho and Ifako Ijaye Local Government Areas, started the 2019/2020 academic session with prayer and meeting with school principals at Government College, Agege. She said: “I believe we all have rested, recharged and are now ready to start with new vigour for highly improved performance. To our seasoned principals, skilled and dedicated staff, both teaching and non-teaching, who had resumed work a week earlier strategizing and preparing for the smooth take-off of the session, the table is set as to give our best to our tomorrow’s leaders.” Earlier, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, Mrs. Abosede Adelaja, reiterated that Lagos State governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, had promised to invest hugely in education as part of his THEME agenda for a greater Lagos. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .