• Conducts 609 Free Eye Surgeries For The Underprivileged In Kano Over time, a wide range of people in Nigeria have been subjected to full or partial blindness due to cataract. Most cataracts develop slowly over years,  with the symptom of blurry vision. When a person has cataract, the blurry lens is supposed to be operated on and eyesight restored. However, limited facilities and the sky-high costs compel many less-privileged Nigerians to put up with their poor sight. Based on this realisation of the plight of the disadvantaged people, Geeta Ashram, an Indian temple in Lekki, Lagos, that started organising free Eye Cataract Surgery Camps (ECSC) since 1999, partnered with Rotary Club of Lagos Island (RCLI) three years ago  to scale up the effort. Under its Vision 2020 Project, RCLI with its target of 1,000 surgeries for year 2019-2020, performed 609 surgeries for people suffering from cataract at ECWA Hospital in Kano recently. At the closing ceremony of the eye camp, President of RCLI, Vipul Agrawal, who was grateful for the successful surgeries, said: “The Rotary Club is committed to serving the poor and needy. We are involved in health, hygiene and sanitation, education, polio eradication drive, distribution of sanitary napkins to teenage schoolgirls, rehabilitation of school toilets, fixing artificial limbs, vocational training and many other projects.”
He further appreciated the donors and well-wishers for their generous contributions and support. The Chief Guest at the event, Emir of Kano,  Mallam Muhammadu Sanusi II, duly represented by Alhaji  Hamza Bayero, Dan Madamin Kano, appreciated Rotary and Geeta Ashram for their selfless service to the people of Kano, urging them to continue their humanitarian deeds to bring cheer and light to the people.Chairman, Vision 2020,  Manu Lalwani, also appreciated ECWA Hospital and the people of Kano for making the eye camp a big success. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .