Peter Olayinka. PHOTO: GETTYIMAGES Super Eagles’ Captain, Ahmed Musa will miss his second consecutive international friendly game for Nigeria due to injury when the country meets Brazil on October 13 in Singapore. Musa could not make the team when the Eagles met Ukraine at Dnipro on September 10, but there is a second chance for former U-20 stalwarts, Ramon Azeez and Peter Olayinka. Azeez last played for Nigeria at the Brazil 2014 World Cup, while Olayinka has not had a run for the country under Rohr. Back in the team after spells out due to injury are defenders Kenneth Omeruo, Abdullahi Shehu, Wilfred Ndidi and Chidozie Awaziem. The rest of the squad is made up of players, who featured in Ukraine without the exception of Kelechi Iheanacho, Leon Balogun and Bryan Idowu, who have been dropped. Among the players listed for the game are goalkeepers Francis Uzoho, Ikechukwu Ezenwa and Maduka Okoye, midfielders Alex Iwobi, Oghenekaro Etebo and Joseph Ayodele-Aribo, who scored on his debut against Ukraine. In the team also are Victor Osimhen, Samuel Chukwueze, Moses Simon, Samuel Kalu, Paul Onuachu and Emmanuel Dennis. All invited players are expected to arrive in Singapore on Wednesday, October 9. The full list of players: Goalkeepers: Francis Uzoho (Omonia FC, Cyprus); Ikechukwu Ezenwa (Heartland FC); Emil Maduka Okoye (Fortuna Dusseldorf, Germany). Defenders: Olaoluwa Aina (Torino FC, Italy); Abdullahi Shehu (Bursaspor FC, Turkey); Chidozie Awaziem (CD Leganes, Spain); William Ekong (Udinese FC, Italy); Kenneth Omeruo (CD Leganes, Spain); Jamilu Collins (SC Padeborn 07, Germany); Oluwasemilogo Ajayi (West Bromwich Albion, England) Midfielders: Alexander Iwobi (Everton FC, England); Anderson Esiti (PAOK Salonica, Greece); Oghenekaro Etebo (Stoke City FC, England); Wilfred Ndidi (Leicester City, England); Joseph Ayodele-Aribo (Glasgow Rangers, Scotland); Ramon Azeez (Granada FC, Spain). Forwards: Victor Osimhen (Lille OSC, France); Moses Simon (FC Nantes, France); Samuel Chukwueze (Villarreal FC, Spain); Samuel Kalu (Girondins Bordeaux, France); Paul Onuachu (KRC Genk, Belgium); Emmanuel Dennis (Club Brugge, Belgium); Peter Olayinka (SK Slavia Prague, Czech Republic). To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .