 Troops of Sector 3, Operation LAFIYA DOLE attached to Super Camp Monguno on Friday 30th August 2019 while on patrol dealt a devastating blow on Boko Haram terrorists along Monguno-Mairari-Gajiram axis.  Photo: HQNIGERIANARMY  Troops of Sector 3, Operation Lafiya Dole, on Super Camp Wheels were patrolling along Maiduguri-Monguno road when they encountered the terrorists. Army spokesman, Col. Sagir Musa, stated yesterday in Maiduguri that the patrol team clashed with the terrorists and engaged them in a heavy fire that neutralised several of them. According to him, a few of the terrorists escaped with gunshot wounds going by blood trails in the general area. His words: “The gallant troops also recovered some weapons and equipment from the terrorists. Sadly, during the encounter, three of our gallant soldiers paid the supreme price, while eight others sustained injuries.” However, the Minister of Defence, Maj-Gen. Bashir Magashi (rtd.), has noted that President Muhammadu Buhari ordered him to end Boko Haram activities in the North East. He said the order was complemented with a pledge of providing the necessary support for troops of Operation Lafiya Dole. Magashi disclosed this on Saturday during a dinner with members of Borno Elders Forum (BOEF) at Command Guest House, Maiduguri. The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt-Gen. Tukur Buratai said the dinner was significant, as they could unlock the solution to the issue of terrorism in the state. BOEF chairman, Alhaji Asheik Jarma, and secretary, Dr. Bulama Gubio, expressed readiness to support the government and the military to end terrorism in the region. Meanwhile, the Federal Government has been charged not to view the insecurity bedeviling the country with a political barometer. Secretary of Conference, Methodist Church Nigeria, Rt. Rev. Michael Akinwale, gave the advice yesterday at the 60th Circuit anniversary thanksgiving service of the Ago-Ijaye Circuit of the Diocese of Lagos Central. He called for decisive actions against insecurity in the country. Similarly, the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adeboye, has called on the government to be sincere in the war against corruption, which he said fuels insecurity. Adeboye, who spoke through the Assistant General Overseer, Administration and Personnel, Johnson Odesola, cast aspersions on the sincerity of the present administration in fighting corruption, lamenting that no suspect had been brought to book since the war began.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .