 The new AMBON Executive  Like-minded creative entrepreneurs established AMBON in 2017 with the aim of forming a common front that will bring more professionalism and sanity to the business of music, as against the ‘DJ track one’ era. At an inauguration ceremony in Lagos, a new executive were unveiled to push the agenda of the association. The team is led by Akinloye ‘Shuga’ Tofowomo of (Shuga Band) as President and assisted by Gloria Ibru (GNote Band), 1st Vice-President and Ayoola Ajekigbe (Faith Band), 2nd Vice-President. Other members of the team Biodun Adebiyi (Batik Band) as Secretary, Ayokeji Tuase (Heroes Band) as Financial Secretary, James Adeosun (Gracious Band) as Treasurer, Lekan ‘Omoobaorun’ Ogunyinka (Eagle Band) as PRO, Sammy Shodeke (Aristos Band) as Welfare Officer, Dabyna Abraham (Salt of The Earth Band) as Chief Whip and Zubby Enebeli (Zee Squad) as Planning/ Logistics officer. While making his acceptance speech, Akinloye Tofowomo unveiled a blueprint tagged TEMPO to move the association forward. “My agenda includes T – Technology & Techniques and Tactics, E – Entrepreneurship, M – mastery and monetization, P – Posterity and Best Practice and O – Oneness and ownership of our industry.” Explaining further, he noted that the association will embark on membership drive with a view to adding values to them through impactful programmes.
“The responsibility we are accepting is exciting. We are called to be the leaders of this dynamic and growing association which, with others around the country, will make a critical difference in the Live Music Business delivery to an increasing circle of people in our community, and in the national and international entertainment arenas,” Tofowomo added. Also speaking Gloria Ibru said, “What AMBON will do is to help live band musicians understand the business side of music. Educating live musicians about the music business through different initiatives in collaboration with development partners will be the first thing. With more enlightenment, live musicians will be able to demand and get the respect they deserve.” On how AMBON will change perception of live band musicians, Lekan Ogunyinka noted that those days are gone when live band musicians used to be regarded as never-do-wells. “Aside running live bands, we are professionals and some of our members here have first and second careers in Accounting, Academia, Law, Marketing and the Media. We are bringing sanity and professionalism to live band music. 