 [FILES] Col. Sagir Musa  Operation Ayem Akpatuma II has been slated for the North Central and parts of northwest states in 1 and 3 Divisions Area of Responsibilities (AOR) including Headquarters Command Army Records, Guards Brigade and 707 Special Forces Brigade; Egwu Eke IV will be carried out, as usual, in the South East in 82 Division AOR, while Crocodile Smile IV will take place in the South-South and parts of South West. Similarly, Operation Positive Identification will be carried out across the nation to track bandits, ethnic militia, cattle rustlers and other criminals. In the same vein, as part of the exercises, the Nigerian Army Women Corps will stage a robust show of force/confidence building patrols in some selected locations in the country. According to a statement yesterday by the army spokesman, Col. Sagir Musa, to consolidate on the existing cordial civil-military relations, there will be elaborate civil/military cooperation line of activities such as free medical outreach, educational outreach, rehabilitation of dilapidated roads, hospitals, schools, and old peoples homes. In a related vein, the Theatre Commander, Operation Lafiya Dole, Maj-Gen. Olusegun Adeniyi has warned troops against showing mercy to fleeing Boko Haram remnants. Adeniyi gave the warning yesterday when he visited Sector 2, Headquarters of Operation Lafiya Dole in Damaturu, Yobe State. “Don’t show any kind of mercy to Boko Haram terrorists and the people supporting their activities,” he said. He ordered the commanding officers to lead troops to deal with the fleeing Boko Haram remnants. Meanwhile, the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) has urged the presidency and security agencies to beef up security against Boko Haram attack in Zamfara State. The appeal was contained in a statement signed yesterday by the spokesperson of the group, Ikenga Ugochinyere. “CUPP is in possession of a police signal detailing how members of the dreaded Boko Haram sect is planning to unleash deadly attacks on councils in Zamfara. “Some of the locations being targeted, according to the police signal, include the Gusau Central Mosque, Mammy Market, Tsafe Council, Talata Mafara Council, Anka/Zurmi, Maru/Maradum Council and two very important personalities. “The development should naturally be of great concern to all lovers of peace in the country,” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .