Photoo Verywellfit Most people know of the importance of taking water often, it is everywhere, on almost every news site and blog site about how it is essential to take some amount of water per day. However, most people do not know that the temperature of the water you are taking is also very important. Many people are not aware of the fact that drinking chilled water can do more harm than good. Below are some health effects of taking cold water too often; Decreases Heart Rate According to medical researches, taking cold water decreases heart rate and stimulates the nerve which controls the involuntary functions of the body, this is known as the vagus nerve. The nerve is also an integral part of the nervous system. As the vagus nerve is directly affected by the low temperature of water, the heart rate eventually slows down, that is, as an emergency measure, your heart rate slows down until your body temperature reaches equilibrium once again. This is not too good for the heart as it can lead to other heart-related problems. Constipation Constant intake of cold water can lead to constipation. When you drink cold water, the food solidifies and hardens when passing through the body. The intestines also contract which is one of the major causes of constipation. It has been researched that drinking water that’s at room temperature helps the digestive process. Headaches If you’re familiar with “brain freeze”, which you get because of ingesting ice cream or crushed ice, the same thing is caused by cold water/ ice water. It chills many sensitive nerves in the spine, and they immediately relay messages to your brain, which in turn causes headaches. Fat Storage Taking cold water after a meal affects the breakdown of fat.  This is because cold temperatures in the body cause fats to harden and congeal, making them more difficult for the body to digest. Even if you drink normal water, ensure that you wait for 30 minutes after a meal before drinking water to get the maximum benefits. 