pumpkin leaves | Photo: demand Africa Fluted pumpkin, commonly called Ugwu in Igbo dialect, is one of the most consumed dark green leafy vegetables which many us are unaware of its benefits to the body. Pumpkin leaves can be consumed in various ways – It can be made as a soup, added to salads, made as a dessert or eaten raw. It is essential to make sure the leaves are not overcooked to prevent the nutrients from being destroyed. Some reasons why it should be added to your diet include the following: May Reduce the Risk of Cancer Pumpkin leaves are good sources of beta-carotene which is proven to reduce the risk of some cancer. Including pumpkin leaves in your diet will boost your body’s vitamin A level and can prevent the growth of cancers like prostate and breast cancer. Rich in Fiber Daily intake of fibre is good for the body. Fibre helps in the digestion of food. It also prevents the blood from absorbing too much sugar. It regulates the bowel’s movement which reduces the risk of colon cancer. Lowers Blood Pressure Potassium is one of the nutrients for heart health. Eating potassium-rich foods can prevent high blood pressure, stroke, diabetes and other heart-related diseases. The good news is, this important element can be found in pumpkin leaves. It lowers blood pressure in people with high blood pressure and can prevent those that don’t have it from developing high blood pressure. Boost Immune System The combination of vital immune-boosting nutrients present in pumpkin leaves makes it one of the foods that have the ability to fight diseases and infections. For instance, beta-carotene produces vitamin A which protects the body from infections. Also, there is an abundant number of vitamin C in pumpkin leaves. Vitamin C also strengthens our immune system and keeps us healthy.  The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.