Prince Harry and his wife Meghan on Tuesday gave a royal boost to South African surfers harnessing the power of the waves to boost mental health in poor communities. Help through sport — an issue famously close to the prince’s heart — marked the second day of their tour of southern Africa, the first official trip by the Duke and Duchess of Sussex since becoming parents to baby Archie in May. Buffeted by high winds, the couple chatted to members of an NGO called Waves for Change, which uses surfing to help stressed youngsters in Cape Town’s slums find positive thinking and calm. “Nelson Mandela once said that sport has the power to change the world,” said Thembaletu Mani, 24, one of the mentors who greeted the couple at Monwabisi Beach. “So that’s what we do here, conquer the challenges through sport.” Eighty-year-old Wendy Perks and her daughters Jenny and Carol were among those who braved the winds to await the British royals. Wearing masks of the face of Harry’s grandmother, Queen Elizabeth II, each had a camping chair adorned with a string of small British flags. Prince Harry, Duke of Sussex and Meghan, Duchess of Sussex arrive for a visit to the “Justice desk”, an NGO in the township of Nyanga in Cape Town, as they begin their tour of the region on September 23, 2019. – Britain’s Prince Harry and his wife Meghan arrived in South Africa on September 23, launching their first official family visit in the coastal city of Cape Town. The 10-day trip began with an education workshop in Nyanga, a township crippled by gang violence and crime that sits on the outskirts of the city. (Photo by Courtney AFRICA / POOL / AFP) “We are the biggest royal fans in the world. We’ve been to Kate and William’s wedding, we’ve been to Meghan and Harry’s wedding, the Queen’s jubilee and the Queen’s 90th birthday,” Jenny Perks told AFP. “We grew up with Princess Diana, so we just love her boys. She was the people’s princess. We love all the pomp and ceremony. Proudly royal and proudly British, and South African.” She added: “We’re guessing Meghan will have a ponytail and jeans because it’s far too windy for a dress.” That prediction turned out to be spot-on. The duchess emerged from a luxury 4×4 clad in black trousers and a denim jacket with a white blouse, while Harry wore dark trousers and a green shirt. The charity is one of four organisations chosen by the Sussexes to benefit from donations made by the public when Archie was born. Surfing-clad volunteers then invited the royal couple to join them in a dance, followed by a brief session of meditation, seated in a circle on the beach. Annelissa Mhloli, a 24-year-old surf coach, sat between Harry and Meghan. “It was amazing because of how chilled and welcoming they were,” Mhloli said afterwards. “They made me feel so comfortable.” The star of the visit — little Archie — has so far been out of sight, to the chagrin of royal-watchers. The family arrived in Cape Town on Monday, immediately setting the tone of their visit to South Africa with a show of support for victims of gender violence. South Africa is one of the world’s most dangerous places, particularly for women. At least 137 sexual offences are committed per day, according to official figures. In August alone, more than 30 women were killed by their spouses. The family is to remain together until Wednesday when Harry will travel alone to Botswana, Angola and Malawi. He will visit conservation and HIV prevention projects, and a cleared minefield in Angola through which his late mother Princess Diana famously crossed in 1997. The duchess will remain in South Africa. She and Archie will reunite with Harry in Johannesburg next week, where they will complete the tour and fly back on October 2.