 The vandalised vehicle in the governor’s wife convoy.<br />Photo: TWITTER/ EKITISTATEGOV  The students had during a protest against incessant power outage in Oye-Ekiti and other adjoining communities attacked the convoy of the wife of the state governor, Erelu Bisi Fayemi, leading to the killing of two students while several others were injured. NANS in a statement signed by its Zone D Coordinator, Comrade Adekitan Lukman, which was made available to journalists in Ado-Ekiti, yesterday, described the killings as unfortunate, adding that sanctions must be meted out to all those found culpable. Read More: Ekiti government delegation visits families of slain FUOYE students According to him, the governor’s wife never ordered the security agents to shoot the protesting students, warning those who want to score political points with the incident to steer clear. He advised the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Muhammed Adamu, and the state Commissioner of Police, Amba Asuquo, to begin urgent orientation of officers on the rules of engagement during protest so as to prevent future occurrence. Lukman threatened to move the secretariat of the students’ body to Ekiti if the governor fails to respond to their demands within the next five working days. The statement read in part: “We condemn in the strongest possible term the gruesome killings of the two students who lost their lives in the safe and pray to God to give the family of the departed the fortitude to bear the loss. “We demand that the Ekiti State government should take up all expenses of those injured and as well compensate the family of the deceased. “We call on the state government to set up a judicial panel of enquiry to investigate the needless killings and barbaric show of force by the police and recommend appropriate sanctions as well as means of preventing future occurrence. “We hope to get a quick and favourable response to these demands within the next five working days. We shall not hesitate to move down the secretariat of the zone to Ekiti and roll out our arsenal of agitation if these demands are not met.” The student’s group added that government at all levels must put it across to the Benin Electricity Distribution Company (BEDC) to restore power to the university community to put an end to future agitations from students. NANS also urged the management of FUOYE to rescind its decision on the proscription of the students’ union activities in the overall interest of peace. “The proscription of the Students Union was done too hastily and was needless as well. We call on the FUOYE management to immediately rescind this proscription order as this will be the first step in ensuring that peace returns to the university,” NANS said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .