 District 9110 Governor, Rotary International, Dr. Jide Akeredolu  Akeredolu lamented that the gap between the rich and the poor is so wide that it is fuelling crime. He also bemoaned that kidnapping had become a normal activity in the country.He said: “Poverty is a complex issue and we notice that the government tries to provide safety net for people who are very poor but the nets they are providing have holes in them and the holes are getting bigger and people are falling through. The number of people that are poor is so huge that government cannot really cope. “Incidentally, the World Bank named Nigeria as the extreme poverty capital of the world. The extremely poor are special group of people who are at the bottom of the barrel, literally, they are living without hope. The World Bank says these are people who use more than 80 per cent of their income just on food. “There is need for the government to be sincere in its fight against corruption. We know the corrupt leaders. The government should not be selective in who they prosecute. When they fight corruption sincerely, people will know that government is sincere and everybody will seat up. By these, I believe money will circulate and impunity will be a thing of the past.”On his part, the president of Rotary Club of Agege, Rtn. Emmanuel Eneh, said the body embarks on poverty alleviation projects to support the people. “We have graduated over 800 people in skills acquisition, such as tailoring, bead making, hair dressing, catering and many more. At the end of the graduation we empowered them with equipment to start their businesses. Also, we give scholarships to indigents students. We are open for collaboration with the government. If they can partner with us by sponsoring some of these projects, it would be a welcome development.”During the visit, the association commissioned some projects, inducted new members, graduated students in vocational classes and gave micro-credit to some people. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .