 Governor Obaseki  The recent refurbishment of Government Science and Technical College (GSTC), formerly Benin Technical College (BTC), is not putting the desired smiles on the faces of residents because of the condition of the road leading to the school. Agitations of government’s neglect of the only access road to the college have cast a slur on Governor Godwin Obaseki’s good intention for the residents. But Edo citizens in the Diaspora, oblivious of the state of the road, had reportedly been applauding the governor for refurbishing the college and establishing the Edo Production Centre in Benin City. An indigene resident in Canada, Bassey Osagie, said the Obaseki-led administration had shown commitment to drive sustainable development in the state. The staff sergeant added that he was impressed by the governor’s initiatives of creating wealth and providing opportunities for youths to learn skills and improve their livelihood. “What impresses me about the governor is when I hear that he opened the GSTC, formerly BTC, when I hear that businesses are opening in Benin, and when people are getting jobs from the 1,000 or 2,000 he created,” Osagie said.On a visit yesterday, The Guardian observed that the road had almost become impassable due to heavy flooding and potholes. The residents, who constantly decry the condition of the road, called on the governor to complete the good job by fixing the road urgently. Meanwhile, the Vice Chancellor of Igbinedion University, Okada (IUO), Prof. Lawrence Ezemonye, has described digital skills as key to the nation’s technological advancement. According to him, digital skill is key to a successful entrepreneurship, greatly reducing operational cost and enhancing innovation and production of eco-friendly goods.Ezemonye spoke yesterday at the South South Cisco Academy Instructors workshop hosted by Igbinedion University, with the theme ‘Digital Skills and Entrepreneurship Development’. The significance of digital skills, he said, is key in the 21st century education and national development, adding that the collaboration between Cisco Academy Systems and Igbinedion University attracted 185 participants from over 30 registered institutions. “We believe that to increase the number of future-ready and industry-relevant students that will excel in the current IT-driven world, great care and deliberate effort need to be put into preparing instructors; hence the need to partner with one of the top players in the Information and Communications Technology (ICT) sphere.“It is now mandatory for students to be equipped with digital skills to enable them participate in the 21st century society,” Ezemonye added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .