Alaibe A governorship aspirant in the just-concluded People’s Democratic Party (PDP) gubernatorial primaries in Bayelsa State, Chief Timi Alaibe, has vowed not to defect from the party. He said that he was optimistic that the court would reverse the choice of Senator Doyuye Diri as the governorship candidate. Alaibe, who had filed a suit in court to seek redress over the conduct of the PDP primaries during which he came second, said his previous exit from the party was based on principle, while his return was based on necessity. He said that following the inexcusable faulty processes that preceded the PDP governorship primary election in Bayelsa State, it was the collective decision of those who believe in the future of the state, and indeed the future of democracy in Nigeria, that he should seek judicial redress over the manipulated processes that led to the unacceptable outcome of that election. In a statement made available to newsmen in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State yesterday, Alaibe, a former Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), said: “Some people have questioned the need for a court process. The answer is simple: Any injustice that is not challenged and corrected will surely be repeated. And we will be the victims. As an advocate of peace and non-violence, I decided to accept the advice of the stakeholders and seek justice through legal means. “Although this was misunderstood by some people, I want to sincerely thank my supporters and indeed all lovers of democracy and the rule of law for their understanding and massive support so far. I salute your calmness and perseverance in the face of great injustice. But please understand that I need you now more than ever. “As expected, some people have suggested that I should simply dump the PDP and accept the various offers by other political parties so that we would realise our vision of implementing the Blue Economy and Project Dolphin in Bayelsa State. That is indeed an excellent suggestion. “It demonstrates the depth of confidence people have in my capacity and competence to deliver on my promises no matter the political platform. Others have also advised that I remain in the PDP, seek justice and contribute to the complete reformation of the party. This, also, is a beautiful suggestion that must be considered. “So far, we have stayed on course and even those who set out to play god and had underrated our collective resolve not to be frightened out of the race with cheap blackmail, are shocked at our tenacity. We have been able to conquer intimidation with unpredictable resilience. Despite all attempts, they have not been able to fault our superior arguments demonstrated in our vision. We have shown them that we mean business, and that we are too focused to be distracted.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .