Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi (Ojaja II) The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, in conjunction with Brazilian government, is set to unveil an Oduduwa Mobile Library on Sept. 7, to boost cultural awareness in the country. The cultural ambassador, House of Oduduwa Foundation, Princess Ronke Ademiluyi, told the News Agency of Nigeria on Sunday in Lagos, that the project would redirect interest of culture among the youths. According to her, the N5 million worth of museum is an initiative from the Ọọ̀ni of Ifẹ̀, in conjunction with governments of Brazil and Cuba as well as over 20 other countries. She said that the countries involved in the exercise would have the artifacts moved round to them. Ademiluyi told NAN that the project would have economic, political, and socio-cultural benefits to the country as it would attract global attention to the richness of Odùduwà culture. She said that the historic event, which would have tourism potentials, would be flagged-off on Sept. 7, at the Brazilian Embassy in Lagos. “The whole event will last 60 days, as cultural materials of African origin will be strategically moved from place to place within Lagos and exhibited for all to see. “The event that is scheduled to coincide with the 197th Independence Anniversary of Brazil of Sept. 7, 1822,” she said. Ademiluyi, the founder of Africa Fashion Week, Nigeria/London, noted that choice of collaborating with Brazil, was because it was a country with over 80 million Odùduwà population. “Brazil is the first country to collaborate with the House of Odùduwà on the promotion of African Heritage due to her acceptance of Yoruba people and culture. “It is noteworthy to mention that Brazil had gone as far as adopting Yorùbá language as one of it’s official language in the country,” she added. She said that the programme would include a four- day exhibition of antiquities, art recreations of divinities, and treasures of ancestors of the Odùduwà people. “The cultural items combine to reinforce the belief that, indeed, humanity originated from Ilé-Ifẹ̀, the acclaimed origin of the Odùduwà people located in South Western part of Nigeria,” she said. The cultural ambassador added that researches had shown that the Odùduwà people started the tradition of arts in casting, sculpturing, carving, and molding. “Remains of ancestors of the Odùduwà race dating back to over 13,000 years ago have also been discovered inside Ihò Eléérú (ashes cave) at Ìsàrun near Ìgbàrà-Òkè in Ondó State, through valid academic research. “Somewhere in Ìresi in Ọ̀ṣun State also, tools showing civilization dating back to about 5, 000 years ago have been discovered by certified researchers,” she said. Ademiluyi noted that the Museum project was aimed at attracting and coordinating various interest groups for sustainable global peace and development that placed emphasis on youth encouragement. “Specifically, it will serve as the hub for the collection of diverse African cultural productions and knowledge-retrieval, renewal and production centre for ancient African cultures. “This gesture will also work for the reinforcement of “the historic ties of Brazil with Africa” as recognized by the UNESCO,” she maintained. Ademiluyi then added that the mobile Museum Initiative would serve as “the center for the collection, protection, exhibition, and promotion of antiquities, treasures and traditional art forms of Africa.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .