Armed gunmen suspected to be herdsmen yesterday morning killed two persons and rustled 120 cattle and 100 sheep at Vatt village in Foron District of Barkin Ladi Local Council of Plateau State. Confirming the incident in Jos, the member representing the area in the state House of Assembly and the chamber’s Minority Leader, Peter Ibrahim Gyendeng, said the attack took place at about 3:00 a.m. His words: “There was an attack this morning (yesterday) in Vatt community of Foron District, Barkin Ladi LGA of Plateau State by unknown gunmen which villagers suspected to be Fulani herdsmen and the incident took place at about 3:00 a.m. when people were still in their sleep. “They killed two persons, injured two others, while 120 cattle and 100 sheep were rustled from the villagers.” The lawmaker, who condemned the aggression, called on the security agencies to arrest the perpetrators. Efforts to reach the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Matthias Terna Tyopev, for further confirmation were futile as he was away at the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS) with CP Ezekiel Akinmoyede to welcome the Inspector General of Police, Abubakar Adamu, who was there to deliver a lecture. In the meantime, the Kaduna State Security Council has issued an advisory, notifying Nigerians that there are no authorised checkpoints along the Kaduna-Abuja, Kaduna-Zaria and Kaduna-Birnin Gwari highways. In a statement, the Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, said any person or group of persons observed to be manning roadblocks along the designated routes should be treated as impostors. He said:  “Road users are strictly warned not to show compliance with any checkpoints on these routes at this time. “The State Security Council wishes to assure the public that the security agencies are conducting operations to rout the criminals and end the menace of banditry on these highways. “The public should immediately report any checkpoints sighted to the Security Operation Centre on the following emergency lines:  09034000060 and 08170189999. “The Kaduna State Security Council requests continued vigilance from residents, and warns that any conduct, under whatever guise that threatens to undermine peace and security in the state, will be dealt with decisively in accordance with the law.” In a related development, Governor Samuel Ortom has reassured the Igbo community and other Nigerians doing business in Benue State of protection of their lives and properties. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Terver Akase yesterday in Makurdi, the governor said his administration had taken proactive measures to tackle kidnappings and other criminal activities in Benue. He reminded residents that the state’s anti-kidnapping and cultism law was still in force, as violators would be made to face justice. Ortom reiterated the resolve of his government not to surrender the state to criminals, adding that the clampdown on hoodlums had intensified. He allayed the fears of businessmen and women, investors and traders alike, advising them not to shut their investments in the state. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .