Justice Simon Amobeda of the Federal High Court in Calabar, the Cross Rivers State capital, has sentenced six Facebook hackers to one year imprisonment each, with an option of fine of N500, 000 fine. The convicts are Lawrence Nnamdi-Mba Ebesike, Prince E. Udeh, Chijioke Victor, Promise Odimba, Ugbor Ifeanyi and Prince Anthony.They were arraigned on Wednesday, September 25, this year on separate one-count charge bordering on impersonation and fraud, before the same court, to which they all pleaded guilty. Following their pleas, Prosecution Counsel, Usman Shehu, told the court of the plea-bargain agreements entered and executed by the prosecution and the Defence; hence the matter was adjourned to September 26 for conviction and sentence, while the convicts were remanded in Afokang Correction Centre in Calabar. Delivering judgment on Thursday, Justice Amobeda convicted all the defendants and ordered the convict forfeiture of all the items recovered during arrest, including six laptops; 12 sophisticated mobile phones; one International Passport; four Airtel SIM packs; three MTN SIM packs; two Glo SIM packs; one Smile Router and two Modems. The convicts ran into troubles on September 2, this year, when operatives of the Uyo Zonal Office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) arrested them in a two bedroom apartment located at During interrogation, the suspects said the apartment, which served as their home and office, was rented by Ebesike for the purpose of training Facebook hackers. Confessing to the crime, Ebesike, who claimed to be a musician, with the stage name, Lawre Blue, gave a detailed account of how they carried out their operations on Facebook: “I am into Internet fraud. Part of how I operate is, I edit Facebook accounts, go to Google and search for pictures of United States (US) military personnel. “I download some of these pictures and put them on the newly created Facebook accounts. After doing that, I target foreigners, mostly old white women who are in need of men. I stay online all day trying to befriend them. “After convincing them, I will make them apply for my leave, so that I can see them.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .