 Fayemi  Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi has called for a review of the country’s education curriculum to meet international standards and adequately respond to the challenges facing the nation. The governor, who spoke at a lecture commemorating the 110th Founder’s Day of King’s College, Lagos, at the weekend, said there should be a shift from the present curriculum, which aimed at producing certificated individuals rather than individuals who can contribute practically to the development of the country. Fayemi also called for the restoration of merit over quota system in the admission of students into legacy schools across the country. He commended the legacy schools, especially King’s College,  for “producing leaders who are contributing to national development”. He also called on all stakeholders to work together to re-invent the days when the nation’s education system produced men and women who are truly worthy in character and learning. Fayemi, who urged government at all levels to build more schools to cater for the rising number of students and curb overloading existing schools beyond their capacity, said the current challenges facing the nation’s education sector must be surmounted now to provide the “required solutions for Nigeria’s development in all ramifications – generation after generation.” He said government, school authorities and other stakeholders must be proactive and strategise to reposition the nation’s education system. President of Kings College Old Boys Association, Alhaji Ibrahim Kashim-Imam, who spoke earlier, said the plummeting education system was responsible for the lecture marking the school’s 110th founder’s day celebration. Meanwhile, in a bid to fill the existing vacancies in the public secondary schools, the Ekiti State government has begun the process for the employment of 1,000 teachers into the state Teaching Service Commission (TESCOM). This came barely a month after the state Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) began similar exercise for the recruitment of 2,000 teachers into the state’s public primary schools. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .