 Gombe State’s governor-elect, Alhaji Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya.<br />Photo/TWITTER/ GOVERNORINUWA  Yahaya disclosed this while briefing newsmen on Friday in Gombe to commemorate his 100 days in office. He said the current, the number of out-of-school children in the state was 700, 000 from the total population of 3.2 million people and described the situation as unfortunate. He said the number when compared with the population of the 3.2 million persons was a huge challenge, adding that no society could develop without the rudiments of education. “In the next four years that I am here, if we are able to bring down the number of out-of-school children from 700, 000 to 200, 000; it will have been a good achievement. “By the grace of God, we shall do that because education is a core concern of this administration. It is about the lives of our children who are the leaders of the future. “Over the years, emphasies have been given to the tertiary institutions, but it is key we give priority to the rudiments of education to boost our performance in external examination over time. “We are going to improve on education to change the narrative in the sector,” Yahaya said. On the quality of education, the governor said that it was part of his administration agenda and top priority. “We will emphasise that our children have quality education so that we can bridge the gap in that regard too even as we take them off the street. “With quality education, we will change the psyche of the people because education is an eye-opener that makes the people see from different angles and it widens their horizons,” Yahaya said. According to him, religion is not a barrier to education adding that religion should not be used as an excuse not to put children in school. “I am a Muslim and I was born here and at least I went to school at the age of six, that was some 50 years back, therefore, I see no reason why our children today should not go to school. “We will work and ensure that in a short while Gombe will be able to beat its cheat and tell the world that we now have a very minimal number of out-of-school children,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .