 [files] Troops of 115 Task Force Battalion, Operation Lafiya Dole  Its Commander, Major General Olusegun Adeniyi, disclosed that the terrorists were fleeing following last week’s ground and aerial bombardments of Tumbus areas in the Lake Chad region of the North East. The region comprises Niger, Chad, and Cameroon, including the lake used by insurgents to launch attacks on Baga, Mallam Fatori and Monguno towns in Borno State. Spokesman of Operation Lafiya Dole, Col. Ado Isa disclosed in Maiduguri that “Operation Positive Identification was aimed at searching for and arresting suspected Boko Haram and Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP’s) criminal elements.” He said the fleeing criminals were roaming some parts of the North East, adding that the operation became necessary following credible information that some of them were hibernating in towns and villages of Borno and Yobe states. Besides, Adeniyi warned residents of Borno and Yobe states against harbouring fleeing criminals and terrorists in their homes and neighbourhoods. Last week’s military onslaught on Boko Haram and ISWAP terrorists forced many survivors to seek refuge in homes of some individuals, as seven Boko Haram and ISWAP commanders, were also killed in the coordinated ground and aerial bombardments of Tumbus areas in the Lake Chad region. Isa said, “Credible information reaching the headquarters of Theatre Command indicates that some of the surviving criminals are seeking refuge in homes of some individuals in parts of Borno and Yobe states. “The criminals and fugitives have fled to 23 towns of Borno and Yobe states to take refuge and avoid being arrested.” Relatedly, the North East Development Commission (NEDC) has pledged to facilitate the rehabilitation and resettlement of communities destroyed by terrorists in Yobe State. The decade long insurgency had displaced over a million people from eight council areas including Gujba, Gulani, and Geidam, a border community with Niger Republic. Governor Maimala Buni has also provided land and office accommodation for the commission to commence the rehabilitation processes. Buni disclosed this at the weekend when Chairman of NEDC, Maj-Gen. Paul Tarfa (rtd.) visited him at Government House, Damaturu, saying the decade long insurgency in the North East has destroyed infrastructure facilities and people’s means of livelihoods. Consequently, he said government had to declare a state of emergency on primary and basic education to revamp the sector, adding that a retreat on agriculture was organised to chart a new course for agricultural development towards improved productivity and food security. Responding, Tarfa said the commission was determined to rebuild destroyed infrastructure and assist all affected returnees from internally displaced persons (IDPs) camps. Meanwhile, the Borno State Police Command has confirmed the arrest of four suspected Boko Haram terrorists and 70 others for alleged cattle rustling and armed robbery between July and September this year in Maiduguri metropolis and in Biu and Bayo council areas. Parading the suspects at the weekend in Maiduguri, the Commissioner of Police (CP), Mohammed Aliyu, said Abubakar Mustapha of Bulabulin Ngarnam, was arrested behind the Maximum Security Correctional Home in Maiduguri for alleged spying.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .