Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigerian (PFN) has called on Nigerians not to engage in reprisals against South Africans in respect of the xenophobic attack on Nigerians in South Africa. It advised that Nigerians in and outside the country should rather exercise patience and allow the Federal Government to handle the matter diplomatically. PFN’s National President, Rev (Dr.) Felix Omobude stated this in a telephone interview with The Guardian.Omobude, who is also General Superintendent of Gospel Light International Ministries, also known as New Covenant Gospel Church (NCGC), however, said PFN condemns the killings of Nigerians in South Africa, stressing that Nigerians should be patient and not repay evil with evil. His words: “PFN condemns attacks against foreigners in South Africa, Nigerians should not pay evil for evil but rather be patient with the Federal Government to follow the matter in a diplomatic way for safety. The Federal Government is responding appropriately to the matter”. Also, General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) Pastor Enoch Adeboye has appealed to Nigerians not to retaliate against South Africans but rather show them love because of Nigerians resident in that country.He made said this at the weekend during the Holy Ghost Night with theme, “Lifted Into Glory.” Adeboye stressed that for the sake of Nigerians in South Africa, Nigerians should allow the Federal Government to treat the matter in a diplomatic way, saying any Nigerian that has a South African as neighbor should rather protect them from attack.“Don’t think of reprisals against South Africans, please am begging you all because of Nigerians still living in South Africa. Let us leave the job for the government, as we pray for them for more wisdom, show any South Africans near you love, protect them from harm for the sake of our people. You don’t know what could happen in another man’s land.” Adeboye, who said he believed that every South African is a decent person, pointed out that some of the people perpetrating the act may be 10percent of the population. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .