 Grounded Boeing 737 Max planes face fresh hurdles. 						SOURCE: Google  First, the agency “insisted that any change proposed by Boeing on the resolution of these problems would need to be EASA approved”. Second, as the European Union and the United States have an agreement on air safety, the Federal Aviation Agency (FAA) approved parts that the EASA did not oversee. Thus, as the Max re-enters service, the European agency will do a “broader review of the design of the critical safety systems on the Max”, which the EASA delegated the FAA to certify back when the aircraft was approved for service in 2017 – a topic, “not very popular with our American colleagues”, according to Ky. The EASA sent a list of five changes to be made for the Boeing 737 Max to fly again in the European skies. While most of the corrections align with FAA’s recommendations, one of them related to the autopilot might have never been raised before. Also, EASA demanded “a complete understanding of the two accidents” and finally, it will require that “flight crews are adequately trained” regarding the changes that Boeing made to the 737 Max software. EASA’s executive director also noted that the agency was in “regular and in very strong contact” with the manufacturer and the FAA, as every party involved were trying to get the jet back up in the air. Meanwhile, the FAA expects to conduct certification flights with the grounded jet in October 2019. Boeing stated that the company “assumes” that the 737 Max would return to service “early in the fourth quarter 2019”. However, during his presentation, Ky noted that Boeing had not implemented changes that would provide “appropriate response to Angle Of Attack integrity issues”, questioning whether the assumption would come to fruition. Max operators share the skepticism, as they look forward to the flights to resume in January 2020. The changes to certification show how much the crisis had shaken up the industry, creating a rift between agencies. A recent example of how the agencies still worked together could be the Boeing 787 Dreamliners’ groundings back in 2013 when the aviation authorities grounded the type worldwide due to issues with batteries and electronic systems. The EASA followed the FAA’s directive and noted that the agency was “working closely with the FAA as the primary certification authority”. But when the second 737 Max suffered a fatal accident, the FAA was not seen as the “primary” agency anymore – Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC) was, as it was the first aviation authority to ground the Max. In contrast, the FAA had “not been provided data to draw any conclusions or take any actions”. Two days later, the FAA joined the rest of the agencies and banned the narrow-body from operating commercial flights, one of the last agencies to do so. And, as Boeing aims to return the newest 737 family member to service as soon as possible, it seems like the FAA has lost its status as a leading agency, adding further complexity to the last chapter of the 737 Max crises. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .