Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu. PHOTO: Twitter/jidesanwoolu Buni lays foundation for 3,600 housing units in Yobe
The Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, yesterday promised to better secure residents as one of the primary duties of government. Speaking at the commissioning of 120 patrol vehicles and 35 motorcycles to enhance security in the state, the governor, who was part of the team that midwifed the creation of Lagos State Security Trust Fund (LSSTF) during the administration of Babatunde Fashola, said he remained committed to having a crime-free state. While commending the members of the security operatives, the governor added that “We will continue to engage private sectors who are our collaborators in ensuring not only a safe Lagos but a place where businesses thrive.” Earlier, the Chairman Board of Trustees of LSSTF, Oye Hassan-Odukale, said the Fund gave support to “all the security arms in the state not just the police.” Meanwhile, the governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni, yesterday laid the foundation stone for the construction of 3,600 housing units to be built across the 17 local government areas of the state. The houses, comprising two-bedroom and three-bedroom apartments, will be built within 18 months and will also have such other facilities as schools, places of worship, police outposts, fire service stations, etc built within them. At a ceremony in Damaturu, the state capital, Buni noted that the houses will be built in partnership with the Federal Ministry of Finance-funded Family Homes Funds Ltd and are designed to advance the objective of his administration to provide shelter to the people on a mass scale. “As we all know, shelter is a basic human need. Everyone needs a roof over their heads, a place they can call home. Along with other important human needs such as clean water and sanitation, healthcare, security, etc., shelter plays an important role in achieving peace and prosperity. This is why the Yobe State Government is keen to ensure that on a continuous basis, our people have access to safe and affordable housing”, he said. The governor added that the housing finance company would shoulder the responsibility of providing compensation to the people whose land will be used to build the houses across the 17 local government areas. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .