 [FILE PHOTO] Rochas Okorocha  Also to be considered by the panels are staff audit and other schemes embarked upon by the Okorocha government, among others, which the state government said, was in its determination to put the records straight and reposition the housing sector. But as the disputations continue, workers in the state are being owed five months salary arrears, even as Governor Emeka Ihedioha took office three months ago, indicating that he is now owing to the state’s employees three months salary arrears. However, the state government has said it would not compromise on the welfare of civil servants, stressing that there was no going back on plans to address accommodation shortage through the provision of affordable houses for low-income earners and public servants. Chairman, Imo Housing Corporation, Ray Emeana, stated this while inaugurating some of the committees charged with helping the Corporation to achieve its objectives at the weekend. The committees are, Committee on 1000 Housing Units for Civil Servants, Corporation’s Committee on Income and Expenditure from 2011 till date headed by Dr. Collins Nwachukwu and Committee on Imo State Housing Corporation’s Estate and Layout Review headed by Chucks Okoro. Others are Committee on Review of Corporation’s Law, chaired by Benneth Anukamara and Committee on Staff Audit, headed by Chief Ugwuibe. Emeana, however, decried insinuations that he inherited a near dysfunctional corporation, stressing that Governor Ihedioha’s determination and charge to the board and management was to reposition it to become a viable enterprise. Meanwhile, Okorocha has described claim by the state chairman of the panel on recovery of moveable assets that he was in possession of four boats and other state government property as false and misleading. The immediate past governor at the weekend refuted the allegation in a statement issued by his Special Adviser on Media, Sam Onwuemeodo. “A trending video has been showing where Jasper Ndubuaku is making fresh but false claims. And it is our responsibility to put the records straight to prevent falsehood from being bought by innocent people as the truth. “Okorocha is not in possession of any speed boats donated to the state government by the NDDC. And we also challenge Ndubuaku to publish any documents to that effect since NDDC could not have donated such items without documentation,” the statement reads. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .