 Deputy President, Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG), Solomon Kilanko (left); General Secretary, Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN), Lumumba Okugbawa; President of PENGASSAN, Michael Ohaeri; and President of NUPENG, Akporeha Williams, during a news conference on insecurity in Nigeria, in Lagos…yesterday.  The meeting is aimed at convincing them to lay down their arms and embrace peace, with possible amnesty for those that would comply. Masari is expected to travel to eight councils during which top bandits in those areas would meet with him, and possibly give their terms for cessation of hostilities. The councils include Jibia, Batsari, Danmusa, Sabuwa, Kankara, Safana, Faskari and Dandume. They are all close to the dreaded Rugu forest, which is called different names in parts of the state. It was learnt that the governor would be visiting two councils per day.The Federal Government has, however, restated its commitment to end banditry, kidnapping and related crimes in the country.Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, stated this in Katsina yesterday when he visited the governor over the security situation in the state, and his scheduled meeting with the bandits. Aregbesola said government would not rest on its oars but work assiduously to end the security challenge facing several states in the country.He added that it would work with governors and critical stakeholders in the North West to bring lasting solution to insecurity in the area. Masari commended the minister for choosing to help the state overcome its security challenges.In a related development, Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) has urged Taraba State government to call persons who derive joy in killing and rustling cattle in the state to order. The state chairman, Alhaji Sahabi Tukur, yesterday, drew the attention of the state government to the “ungodly acts” in parts of the state, and called on the relevant authorities to end the ills. Disturbed by insecurity and various crimes in the country, the Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG) and Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN) have called on the Federal Government to spare no one in its bid to rid the country of unscrupulous elements. The groups under the aegis of NUPENGASSAN, yesterday in Lagos, accused political office holders of contributing to the insecurity across the land. President of PENGASSAN, Ndukaku Ohaeri, and his NUPENG counterpart, Williams Akporeha, noted that the unfortunate situation had given rise to unprecedented loss of faith in the nation.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .