 [FILES] Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo. Photo/Twitter/SeyiAMakinde  A statement signed by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, said the governor had in a letter dated September 18, 2019 forwarded the names of eight persons to the House of Assembly for consideration as chairman and members of the commission. “I wish to inform your Rt. Hon. and other Honourable members of the composition of the State Independent Electoral Commission (OYSIEC). The following personalities have been considered suitable, based on their track records, to oversee and conduct elections into the local councils in the state,” the letter read in part. Governor Makinde sought for the consideration of the House of Assembly for the nominees. According to the letter, Isiaka Olagunju was nominated as chairman of the commission, while Adeniyi Afeez Babatunde, Alhaja Ganiyat Saka, Mr. Olanrewaju Emmanuel, Chief Kumi Agboola, Mr. Remi Ayoade, Mr. Sunday Falan and Mr. Adeojo Elias were nominated as members. Makinde had dissolved the body constituted by the past administration when he came to office. He cited irregularities and illegality as the reasons for the dissolution. In a live broadcast during his 100 days in office celebration, the governor had said that in the next few days, the state electoral body would be constituted. However, a couple of days ago, chairman and members of the dissolved OYSIEC took Makinde to court over the dissolution of the commission. In the multiple suits filed at the National Industrial Court sitting in Ibadan, Oyo State, the plaintiffs joined attorney-general of the state, the Oyo State House of Assembly and the Head of Service as co-defendants. In seven separate suits individually filed by the chairman and members of OYSIEC, the claimants are challenging the premature dissolution and termination of their tenure of office as chairman and members of the commission. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .