Elders and youth of Elebele Community, Ogbia Local Government Area of Bayelsa State, have decried the lack of social amenities in the community, saying the three tiers of government have abandoned them. Only last week the only bridge connecting the community collapsed, cutting them off from their neighboring community and causing them untold hardship. The youth leader, Okala Azibola, who conducted newsmen round the various abandoned projects in the community, including the 33-year-old bridge that collapsed, disconnecting vehicular movement into and out of the community.  Azibola, who has spent a major part of his life in Elebele, said people of the oil-producing community had to provide power by themselves. Azibola also decried the total absence of a Primary Health Care Centre in the community, stressing that there was an urgent need to build one because the people in the community always travel long distances to get medical care. According to him, Elebele has no good road or proper drainage system, making the roads in the area unusable during the rainy season. He pointed out that the bridge, which collapsed recently is the shortest route that links the Bayelsa East Senatorial District, comprising Ogbia, Nembe and Brass local government areas to the state capital, Yenagoa. He also complained of the poor condition of the Senior Secondary School in the community, stating that they had to send their children to schools in other communities because they can’t afford to allow their children to study under harsh conditions. He added that the School building that was constructed by the current administration at the state level needs urgent renovation as it may collapse soon. He appealed to the government to build a new bridge, school, health center, provide electricity water supply and rehabilitate the roads in and around the community. He revealed that they have decided to oppose any politician that would make promises and not fulfill them in the forthcoming November 16th governorship election, stating that they were fed up with the constant deceit.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .