 Rafael Nadal of Spain celebrates his victory over Matteo Berrettini of Italy during their Singles Men’s Semi-finals match at the 2019 US Open at the USTA Billie Jean King National Tennis Center in New York on September 6, 2019. (Photo by Johannes EISELE / AFP)  Nadal won his serve to lead six-five and Berrettini leveled six games apiece. Nadal lost the first point of the tie break with a double fault and his opponent stretched the tally to 4-0 before Nadal got his first point and took the sixth point on a break of Berrettini serve. Someone once said: “Of all sad words of prose and rhyme, the saddest are ‘it might have been.’” This is applicable to a tennis player after a loss, in which a particular point could have led to a different result. For Berrettini, his decision to hit a drop shot in the 12th point of the tie break could hunt his memory for years.” That choice defied a cardinal counsel not to attempt a drop shot on crucial points. In a tiebreak, every point is crucial. In their match, the missed attempt gave Nadal the point that leveled the tally at the second change of ends and he grabbed the next two points for the set. Berrettini held serve to lead 1-0 but Nadal won the second game at love. The games proceeded to a Nadal clinching the second set. In the third set, Matteo committed many unforced errors that led to the dismal score of 6/2. Fatigue could not be ruled out; from his grueling five-set battle with Gael Monfils in the previous round. Dimitrov lost the opening game on his serve and Medvedev also conceded a break for games to proceed on serve. In the twelfth game, Medvedev saved a set point before holding for 6-6 and the tiebreak. At five points apiece, Dimitrov lost his service point and Medvedev held to win the tiebreak seven points to five, for the set. In the second set, Dimitrov was up 40-30 on his serve in the tenth game but was taken to deuce. He was denied the game on three advantages, particularly when he attempted a drop shot that landed in the net. The next advantage went to Medvedev who took the game and set on a netted backhand from Dimitrov. In the third set, Dimitrov committed two consecutive double faults to lose the fourth game. Medvedev extended the lead with serves to 5-2. Serving to save the match, Dimitrov faced match-point at 30-40 after a long rally but canceled it and took the game with a great volley. Serving for the match, the lanky Russian star delivered two service winners to reach match point and a hard second serve that Dimitrov failed to return. In the U.S. Open warm-up events, Nadal defeated Medvedev 6/3; 6/0 in Montreal, Medvedev defeated David Goffin in Cincinnati but lost to Nick Kyrgios in Washington. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .