Aloe Vera has been found to contain 75 potentially active constituents including vitamins, minerals, enzymes, sugar, amino acids, salicylic acids, lignin, and saponins. Aloe Vera juice is made from the aloe vera plant which grows in tropical climates across the world. The extract of the plant is used in numerous health and skincare products – some of which include skin lotions, oils, cosmetics, and certain medicines. Here are a few benefits of Aloe Vera juice; Treats Digestive Issues The juice has laxative properties that can aid in digestion. It encourages gut bacteria and regulates bowel movements. It also has been found to soothe and cure stomach ulcers. Aloe vera juice can cleanse the digestive tract, which is vital for the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome (which occurs due to the build-up of toxins in the gastrointestinal tract). Reduces Inflammation The anti-inflammatory properties of aloe vera can help treat irritable bowel syndrome. A hormone called gibberellin in aloe vera juice is also found to fight inflammation in individuals who had diabetes Helps to stop constipation Drinking aloe vera juice helps increase the water content in your intestines. Research has shown a relationship between increasing the intestinal water content and the stimulation of peristalsis, which helps you pass stool normally. Promotes Good Heart Health According to multiple studies, aloe vera can help prevent atherosclerosis. The juice has been shown to prevent fatty streak development, thereby halting plaque formation and ultimately protecting the heart Helps Clear Up The Skin Hydrating aloe vera juice may help reduce the frequency and appearance of acne. It may also help reduce skin conditions like psoriasis and dermatitis. Aloe vera is a rich source of antioxidants and vitamins that may help protect your skin. Please note, the medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.