 [FILES] Senator Jonah David Jang  Jang and Yusuf Pam, a cashier at the office of the Secretary to the State Government (SSG) are standing trial before Justice Daniel Longji for allegedly collusion to divert state funds to personal use.Sunday, the 11th prosecution witness, during cross-examination by Jang’s counsel, Mike Ozekhome (SAN), described how Pam, during investigations into the alleged fraud, took him through the back passage, through which he usually took cash to Jang. He said: “The new Government House is located at the outskirts of the town amid a lot of buildings. Among the buildings was the office of the SSG where Pam and the EFCC detectives reported their arrival to the SSG. “From the SSG’s office, we were led to the Governor’s office, a storey building with two doors, one each at the main entrance and at the back exit. There, Pam showed us how he delivered cash in ‘Ghana must go’ bags to the former governor.” While identifying Exhibit P62, a response from the House of Assembly dated July 19, 2018 and September 2014, alongside the letter from the EFCC requesting information, Musa told the court that investigations revealed that memos were written by the commissioner for finance, who was involved in seeking approval for the disbursement of the funds involved in the alleged fraud. “However, the monies were further transferred from Plateau State One account to OSSG account where the second defendant withdrew cash and delivered to the first defendant,” he added.While trying to infer that the prosecution of Jang was political, Ozekhome questioned the witness as to why it took four years for the former governor, who contested under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), to arraigned. “So between 2014 and 2018 when the petition was received and when he was first charged to court, it took four years; don’t you think this has a political undertone?” Ozekhome queried.But Sunday replied, “There are laid-down procedures. Following investigation, the legal team took up the case and charged them to court. All these processes take time.”Under cross-examination, the witness further confirmed that about $100,000 was deposited in a single day into Standard Chartered Bank.“Yakubu Jang, son of the first defendant, was among the persons who deposited monies into the account.”The case continues today.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .