Ikechukwu Onunaku Come up with evidence of assault, police urge Ikechukwu
Nigerian rapper and actor, Ikechukwu Onunaku has accused operatives of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) of beating and robbing him of his money at the Lekki Phase 1 area of Lagos State. The Nollywood actor famous for his role in The Wedding Party, said the SARS operatives pulled him out of the Uber he was in, bundled him into their Hilux van and drove him to Lagos Island. Narrating his ordeal via his Instagram page, Ikechukwu said he was assaulted and forced to empty his ATM account even though one of them recognised him as a popular personality. The rapper further said the SARS operatives threatened to implicate him if he dared proved stubborn. He said: “I was kidnapped by SARS last night two minutes away from my house, taken to Lagos Island and made to exhaust my ATM allowance or I would be killed and no one would know. “Not by armed robbers. But when you are robbed and they are armed fully with five AK-47s, blows to the head and bundled into a vehicle, isn’t it the same thing as being kidnapped. And then after you will now tell me our government is working; things are in place. Bla bla bla. “Let me tell you now straight up. I don’t care who you are, if you are rolling solo in this town and SARS gets you, day or night, if they get your phone, it is over for you. They don’t have names or numbers on their uniforms. “They literally said to me “na you burn this our Hilux here yesterday abii”, acting like they didn’t know who I was and were gonna rope me in anything they felt or do with me what they would. “After collecting all the money in Lagos island they started laughing, telling me I am too stubborn that when will I introduce them to Don Jazzy. Oh, so you know me. “One even bragged about working a lot with Wazobia FM. Thanks for that info at least now I have a point to start my own investigation. I could have been shot and left in the dark space on that dark road. No identity, no phone. Who would identify me? We are not safe. End of story. Know as you dey take move. Shout out to.” When contacted, the Lagos State Police Public Relation Officer (PPRO), Bala Elkana, asked the actor to make a formal report if he was sure of his allegations. “He needs to step forward with the relevant facts to enable us investigate the allegations,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .