President Trump Insults John Legend And His Wife. PHOTO: Indy100 President Donald Trump insults singer-songwriter John Legend and his wife, model Chrissy Teigen on Twitter Sunday night after an MSNBC special on criminal justice reform. The MSNBC special featured Legend who discussed criminal justice reforms in the United States. However, Trump was upset that the report didn’t mention the First Step Act which he signed into law in late December, took to Twitter to voice his displeasure while also shading Legend and Teigen: “When all of the people pushing so hard for Criminal Justice Reform were unable to come even close to getting it done, they came to me as a group and asked for my help. I got it done with a group of Senators & others who would never have gone for it. Obama couldn’t come close….” “….A man named @VanJones68, and many others, were profusely grateful (at that time!). I SIGNED IT INTO LAW, no one else did, & Republicans deserve much credit. But now that it is passed, people that had virtually nothing to do with it are taking the praise. Guys like boring….. “….musician @johnlegend, and his filthy mouthed wife, are talking now about how great it is – but I didn’t see them around when we needed help getting it passed. “Anchor”@LesterHoltNBC doesn’t even bring up the subject of President Trump or the Republicans when talking about…. “….the importance or passage of Criminal Justice Reform. They only talk about the minor players, or people that had nothing to do with it…And the people that so desperately sought my help when everyone else had failed, all they talk about now is Impeaching President Trump!” John Legend was quick with his replies: “Imagine being president of a whole country and spending your Sunday night hate-watching MSNBC hoping somebody–ANYBODY–will praise you. Melania, please praise this man. He needs you.” On her own page, Chrissy Teigen also chimed in: “The absolute best part of his tweet is I literally didn’t speak in the special, nor was I mentioned. I’m cackling at the pointless addition of me.” Teigen and Legend are frequent, outspoken critics of Trump. 