 Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun (middle); Deputy Speaker, Ogun State House of Assembly, Kadiri Oludare (left); Speaker,  Kunle Oluomo; Deputy Governor, Engr. Noimot Salako-Oyedele and Secretary to the State Government, Mr. Tokunbo Talabi, during the signing of four new bills into law in Abeokuta… on Friday.  The bill was presented to him for assent by the leadership of the State House of Assembly on Friday. Three other bills were also signed. They are: Ogun State Legislative Fund Management Law, 2019; the Magistrates’ Court (Amendment) Law, 2019 and the Customary Court (Amendment) Law 2019. With the signing of the bills, the number of bills passed by the Assembly is now seven. The lawmakers had previously passed the amendment law concerning the Moshood Abiola Polytechnic, Abeokuta, the amended Security Trust Fund Law and the State Public Works Agency bill. According to the Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, Governor Abiodun lauded the lawmakers for the timely passage of the bills, which are in the interest of the people within the first 100 days of the inauguration of the 9th Assembly. The Governor said the lawmakers also did well by passing three other resolutions as he also appreciated them for approving his request for N1.5bn loan to facilitate the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme aimed at producing 40,000 agriprenuers, saying it would enable the state participate actively in national economic growth. He noted that agriculture was one of the sectors, which his administration intended to revolutionise.“The Anchor Borrowers’ Programme is one of the programmes under our agricultural sector which is one of the pillars of our vision. We are committed to revolutionise that sector. We see the sector as one that will ensure, apart from food security, employment opportunities for our unemployed youth. “The Central Bank of Nigeria will provide the loan, which will be used in assisting the outgrowers for clearing the land and other logistics. Our new agriprenuers would be provided free seedlings and paid allowances until their first harvest, while we supply the extension services,” he said. While informing legislators what his administration had done in the last 100 days, Abiodun said sectors such as education, health, infrastructure, Information Technology (IT), security, agriculture and employment were on the front burner. He assured them all parts of the state would be developed. The Speaker, Taiwo Oluomo, said: “We are marking our 100 days in office after inauguration. We passed some bills and resolutions and brought them for the governor to sign. We have the amendment to the Magistrate’s Court Bill and the Customary Court Bill. The two are to bring justice nearer to the people so that cases that have up to N250,000 cost could be handled at the Customary Court.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .