 Chidi Okoroafor  The Holy Spirit gives different gifts to different people as He sees fit (1 Corinthians 12:4). Not everyone has the same set of gifts. Some believers have more public gifts, and others have quieter, more private gifts. To do greater works means to rule in your area of calling or gift. It also means that you can manifest the gifts of the supernatural when the occasion arises but not limited to that. Jesus’ earthly ministry had been largely limited to Galilee and Judea; His disciples, however, were going to extend His ministry to the uttermost parts of the earth. When Jesus ascended to Heaven, His followers numbered in the hundreds; forty days later, in response to the preaching of the apostles, that number leaped into the thousands (Acts 2:41). By the end of Acts, the gospel had made its way to Rome. This is a practical example of doing greater works. To do greater works also means to preach with greater clarity, have a greater passion for souls, pray with greater compassion than Jesus and heal the sick with greater power. When we preach the gospel and sinners believe, we are doing the greater work. You will do greater works through the power of prayer. You must yield yourself as a vessel to be used by the Holy Spirit to accomplish great works. But how do we do what Jesus did? How do we do even greater works than He did? He tells us in verses 13 and 14 of John 14: “Whatsoever YE SHALL ASK in my name, that will I do…If YE SHALL ASK any thing in my name, I will do it.” Prayer was never meant to be a last resort. It was meant to be a source of continual communication between God and us. Prayer is the responsibility of every Christian. Prayer is so important that God commanded us in His Word to pray (Eph. 6:18, 1 Thess. 5:17, 1 Tim. 2:8). The Bible says that the Holy Spirit will show us things to come (John 16:13), but how can God warn us about something if we never talk to Him? If we spent more time in prayer, we would be able to pray on the offensive instead of having to pray on the defensive when problems arise. When we enter into a life of prayer, the Lord will show us things to come! The ones who do the works are believers in general: “He who believes in Me.” This promise is not restricted to a special class of elite Christians or latter day apostles. This is an important consideration. The purpose of the works is to lead people to faith in Christ. As you yield yourself to the Holy Spirit, your works shall be bigger, better and greater. May your lifestyle be filled with shining examples that will draw men to Christ.
  Today’s Nugget: Greater works are done through the power of prayer
   Prayer:  Lord, empower me for greater works
  Prayer lines: 09078154261.
  E-mail: aggospelbell@gmail.com
  Dr. Chidi Okoroafor, General Superintendent, Assemblies of God Nigeria  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .