The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the South-West geo-political zone has expressed disappointment over the verdict of the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal, which upheld the victory of President Muhammadu Buhari of All Progressives Congress (APC).The PDP presidential candidate in the February 23, 2019 election, Atiku Abubakar, had sued Buhari challenging his victory. The tribunal had in Abuja on Wednesday upheld the victory of the APC candidate. The position of the party was contained in a communique issued yesterday at the end of stakeholders’ meeting of the party in the zone in Ibadan signed by its National Vice Chairman, Dr. Eddy Olafeso. The communique read in part: “We take serious view of the verdict of the presidential election petitions tribunal verdict on the petitions of our party and candidate, Atiku Abubakar, and therefore put on record our disappointment that justice was not done in view of the plethora of evidences laid before it. We, therefore, resolve to support the party to appeal against same at the Supreme Court. “Due attention is accorded to the verdicts of both the Court of Appeal and Supreme Court on the Osun State governorship election, particularly its resolve to subject the electoral desires and expression of the people of that state to the technicality of a judge missing just a day’s sitting at the tribunal level. While we continue to accord due respect to the judiciary, it is essential that its rulings and verdicts command the respect and confidence of the citizenry in the interest of the nation.” The party also said that it would review its conduct to forestall rigging in the off-season elections.   “That the party must review the conduct of off-season elections in the South-West, with a view to developing a response system that will forestall, arrest and vanquish all APC inspired rigging plans in future elections beginning with the very next gubernatorial election in Ondo State,” the party said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .