A Kano-based group Thursday accused the state governor Umaru Ganduje scheming afresh to remove the embattled Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II. Renaissance Coalition alleged that Kano State government plans to deploy Sanusi to the newly established Bichi emirate and subsequently dethrone him. “It has come to the notice of the Renaissance Coalition that, Kano state Government has gotten wind of a vile plan to swap the Emir of Kano Mallam Muhammadu Sanusi II, to Bichi, and in the event he resists, he shall be deposed,” Renaissance Coalition representative Ibrahim Waiya said in a statement. “This is quite unfortunate that, despite a subsisting court ruling which has ordered the maintenance of status quo pending the conclusion of the matter before it, and even the contentious law which was maliciously and hurriedly made, and is being challenged before the court, has not explicitly provided for such swap.” When contacted, chief press secretary to Governor, Abba Anwar said he was not aware of such plot. Waiya said the alleged plot from Ganduje, which shows desperation was likely to cause violent, unrest in the polity to advance a personal vendetta at the expense of the peace and wellbeing of the citizens he swore to protect. The group called on all well-meaning individuals and the Federal Government, to call the governor to order, to desist from any further hostile action against the Kano emirate and the person of the Emir Sanusi which is capable of jeopardising the relative peace in the State. “We decided not to wait and be reactive but to be proactive because of the perceived heavy toll the repercussions of the alleged action of the Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, awaits the people of Kano if the alleged plot is materialised and remains unchecked. The group also called on security agencies, political leaders, the respected elders, venerated Ulamas, intellectuals, opinion leaders and any person or people with the means to reach out to advise the Governor on the matter. Should the governor refuse the advice, the group said it will call on the Federal Government to declare a state of emergency in Kano State to save Kano State from the consequences of the alleged plot. The group reminded Ganduje of a similar attempt against former Emir Ado Bayero in 2981, saying that Ganduje may generate needless economic and social disability if the plans eventually harsh.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .