 Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi  Deputy Governor of the state, Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi, said the current administration in the state was ready to welcome investment into the state’s education sector by private individuals, corporate organisations, development partners and the Ekiti in Diaspora. Egbeyemi said the state government should not be left alone with the task of lifting education, hence the need to partner with the private sector and development agencies to regain Ekiti’s lost glory in the sector. He gave the charge yesterday when he spoke as Special Guest of Honour at the presentation of 400 units of textbooks and other instructional materials for the use of students of Igbemo-Ekiti community by an indigene based in the United States (U.S.), Prof. Oluwole Akindahunsi. Commending the gesture of the donor under the aegis of the Prof. Wole and Mrs. Mojisola Akindahunsi Public Beneficiary Initiative, Egbeyemi urged other well-meaning and privileged Ekiti indigenes to emulate the gesture to give indigent young ones more access to education. He said that the gesture would also cement unity between the twin Igbemo-Ekiti and Orun-Ekiti communities, urging their traditional rulers to allow peace to facilitate development. Meanwhile, in his message, Akindahunsi said he and his family had desired to give back to the community, which informed the philanthropic project to the benefit of the local students and the school. “To encourage peaceful co-existence, I will appreciate if you (Egbeyemi) can involve the two Kabiyesis on your presentations on our behalf. “The Onigbemo should provide two students and the Olorun should provide one student for the Prof. Oluwole and Mrs. Mojisola Akindahunsi Scholarship Foundation for the community indigent student fees paid directly to the higher institutions of their choice.” Other dignitaries at the event include the Deputy Speaker, House of Assembly, Mr. Hakeem Jamiu; Chairman, House of Assembly Service Commission, Chief Taiwo Olatunbosun; Chief Sola Oloniniyi; Mr. Makanjuola Oloniniyi and clerics from the Anglican Communion in Igbemo-Ekiti.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .