Almost 10 months after he was sworn in as the governor of Osun State, Gboyega Oyetola, has sent his cabinet members list to the State House of Assembly and mya be read by the assembly on Wedensday. “The list has been sent,” Charles Adeyemi, Senior Special Assistant to State of Osun Governor on Strategic Communications, told The Guardian on Tuesday. Oyetola nominated Adebisi Obawale, Ibitoye Felix, Sola Oladepo, Ajisefuni Abioneub, Muminu Adekunle, Ogunfolaju Christie, Sola Oyehan and Oladimeji Olanubi. Other listed were Agunbiade Nathaniel, Folorunsho Bamisayemi, Akeju Taiwo, Lawal Azeez, Olaonipekun Henry, Adeleke Adebayo, Olamiju Olasiji, Yinusa Olalekan, Isamotu Olasunkanmi and Bola Oyebamiji. Omowaiye Remi, Jamiu Olawumi, Akande Oluwafemi, Olumide Babatunde, Olaniyan Hussein, Adeosun Rasaq, Badmus Rahmon
Bajare Akande, Giwa Lateefat, Tadese Raheem, Adewole Adedayo were all among the list. Lawal Tajudeen, Babalola Idiat, Bolaji Aderemi, Egbemode Funke, Kareem Akande, Oyegbile Rufus, and Olaboopo Olubukola also made the list. Hitherto, eight commissioners,  who worked under former governor Rauf Aregbesola,  have been acting as “supervisory commissioners”. “About eight of them were retained as supervisors and what they do is to relate between the government and the people in the meantime,” Kunle Oyatomi, the All Progressives Congress spokesman in the state, told The Guardian in August. Asked if the appointment of “supervisory commissioners” were constitutional, Adeyemi, in August, said the approvals were granted by the state’s six assembly before its end of tenure but names were not publicly announced. Controversies trailed the delay in appointing substantial commissioners by Oyetola. While Oyatomi blamed the delay on the about election litigations against Oyetola’s victory, critics of the government said he was in the footsteps of his predecessor, whom he served as chief of staff. It took Aregbesola almost a year to appoint commissioners in his first term and over two years in his second term. Akin Adeyi, a member of the People Democratic Party, said it is part of the APC’s “deceitfulness” and “tactics” to waste time.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .