 Minister of Communications, Dr. Isa Pantami. Photo/Twitter/nitdanigeria  In a statement signed by the Deputy Director/Head Information/Press and Public Relations Unit, Mrs. Phil Oshodin, the minister said the CEOs must drive the agencies and commissions in line with the Next Level paradigm of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration. The CEOs include Yusuf Kazaure of Galaxy Backbone, Prof. Umar Danbatta of Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Abimbola Alale of Nigerian Communications Satellite (NIGCOMSAT), Adebisi Adegbuyi of the Nigerian Postal Service (NIPOST), and Kashifu Abdullahi of the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA). Pantami assured the CEOs of the Federal Government’s support as they discharge their duties and reminded them of his commitment to sanction any parastatal that fails to step up its performance. Specifically, Pantami wanted Galaxy Backbone to improve the reach and quality of its services. The minister, who was director-general of NITDA, directed the Umar Danbatta-led NCC to stop the sales of pre-registered, unregistered and partially-registered Subscriber Identification Module (SIM) cards, to curb the numerous security challenges in the country; stem illegal deduction of the data and work towards the downward review of data cost. It was also urged to ensure compliance with the maximum two per cent call drop rate directive to telecom operators. NIGCOMSAT was ordered to significantly improve visibility and the quality of service across the country. He charged NIPOST to improve the efficiency of its letter and parcel delivery service and increase the effective area of its coverage in the country. Pantami emphasised the ministry’s roles of supervision and provision of broad policies for all its parastatals. He informed the CEOs that their performance would be assessed monthly, urging them to be passionate, hardworking and exhibit high level of integrity in the discharge of their duties. He also urged them to follow due process in their activities and communicate the values and targets to their staff. The minister called for synergy, unity and the forging of a harmonious inter-agency relationship among the parastatals. He also assured them of his commitment to ensuring that no obstacle stands in their way to the successful execution of their mandates. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .