 [FILES] MFM FC. Photo/twitter/MFMFC_Lagos  The male category of the competition between MFM and Adenose Stars FC ended 1-1 in regulation time, but the Olukoya Boys put up a fine show in the penalty shoot out to beat Adenose 3-0. In the female category, Young Talents beat Victory Queen 1-0 to be crowned champions of this year’s event. Speaking after the final matches, the organiser of the championship, who is also the general overseer of The Redeemed Evangelical Mission (TREM), Dr. Bishop Mike Okonkwo, said the grassroots championship would soon be extended to secondary schools, adding that the church was focused on getting youths off the street to embrace sports and Jesus Christ. “Our major assignment is to make a formidable impact on our world for the Kingdom. To the glory of God, this competition is in its 17th edition and it is getting better and better by the day. “I thank the participating teams for giving their best in the competition. They should realise that everybody is a winner in the eyes of God. “Let me use this opportunity to thank the sponsors for standing by us this year. We also thank the organising committee members for ensuring the event was successful. My prayer for everyone that took part in the event is for our Lord to multiply their seed and grant them a beautiful harvest. I commend the winners for their hard work and determination,” he said. Chairman of Local Organising Committee (LOC), Deacon Iyke Malachy Ndubuzor, in his remarks, said, “The Mike Okonkwo Football Competition has come to stay. All we need now is to create more awareness and encourage more youths to be part of this. “This championship has over the years produced stars for our national teams, but the church’s goal is to touch the lives of youths for whom the competition was created,” he said. The event, which started on May 18 at the NIS Pitch, National Stadium, Lagos, featured 64 male and eight female teams. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .