The Federal High Court Abuja has fixed Oct. 7 to hear an application by former National Publicity Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Olisa Metuh alleging misrepresentation of facts by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, (EFCC). At the resumed hearing on Monday, counsel to Metuh, Mr Abel Oziokor, informed the court that the EFCC, which is trying Metuh, had published a contemptuous publication against his client. Oziokor said that the anti-graft agency, in its publication said that Metuh described how he shared funds he received from the former National Security Adviser, Sambo Dasuki. “Contrary to claims in the EFCC publication, Metuh never admitted to receiving any money from Dasuki, neither did he admit to having shared the N400 million duly released to him by President Goodluck Jonathan, for an approved special national assignment to individuals for other purposes.” Oziokor said that the publication was deliberately designed to injure and drag the integrity of the court in the mud and derail a fair trial. He said this was by selling to the Nigerian public an impression that Metuh admitted receiving N400 million from Dasuki and shared it for political purposes. Oziokor described the publication as malicious, mischievous and a deliberate misrepresentation intended to mislead the public, blackmail the court and derail the course of justice. The counsel lamented that the publication did not reflect the proceedings in court but held outright falsehood and distortions. He, therefore, prayed the court to protect its integrity and put an end to what he described as the media trial of Metuh’s case. He urged the court to order the EFCC Spokesman, Wilson Uwajeren to appear before it to show why he should not be committed to prison for contempt and misrepresentation of proceedings. The trial judge, Justice Okon Abang fixed Oct. 7 to hear the application. He adjourned the substantive matter to Oct. 2 for the continuation of trial.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .