 Schoolgirls at the event  The summer camp, which was organised by Ornaments of Grace and Virtue (OGAV), in conjunction with Cakasa Ebenezer Foundation at Government College, Agege in Lagos, commenced last month, with the theme Who Am I and came to an emotive close during the week. The lives of the girls experienced an affirmative transformation after they participated in the 5th edition of the annual camp, as the facilitators who encouraged them to reflect on their purpose in life taught them different skills. It was indeed a moving moment for participants and parents who could not hide their pride and tears of joy when some of their girls were called out to receive prizes for good conduct. Personnel from Lagos State Education District (LSED) 1, Alimosho LGA, representatives of Parents Forum LSED and other NGOs, graced the closing ceremony. Speaking on the motivation behind the initiative, the founder of OGAV, an NGO, Mrs Olubusola Kolade, said the idea behind the annual camp was to foster a better future for Nigeria since training the girl child amounts to training a nation. In his remarks, Chairman of the occasion, the Managing Director, Cakasa Nigeria Company Limited and Chairman, Cakasa Ebenezer Foundation, Engr. Philip Yaro, encouraged the girls to reflect on what God’s purpose was for their lives. Yaro said: “This exercise is a self-discovery for the girls, as they need to take advantage of the enormous global cultural shift that has begun to counteract the millennia-long imbalance, in opportunity between the genders. Opportunities have opened up for women in the military, politics, entrepreneurship, business, public administration, arts, science, and engineering in ways that had never been contemplated before,” he enthused. Yaro, however, encouraged the girls to let the exercise of self-discovery lead them to become brave enough to weather the storm of difficult times as they grow and move to greater heights in life. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .