Adekunle Nodash Adejuyigbe, Director of The Delivery Boy. PHOTO: Something Unusual Studios Adekunle Adejuyigbe’s The Delivery Boy dominated the nomination list of the 15th Africa Movie Academy Awards (AMAA) earning nominations in 12 categories. The Delivery Boy, produced by Something Unusual Studios, was nominated for Best Achievement in Visual Effects, Best Achievement in Sound, Best Achievement in Cinematography, Best Achievement in Editing and Best Achievement in Screenplay. Other nominations are Best Nigerian Film, Best Achievement in Production Design and Best Film. Adejuyigbe, who was nominated for Best Director alongside Kemi Adetiba for ‘King of Boys’, hopes these award nominations inspire the young filmmakers who have doubts about telling authentic stories. “I hope it gives them permission to go ahead to make their films because the audience is waiting,” Adejuyigbe said. “The overwhelmingly positive responses we have gotten from The Delivery Boy is evidence that contrary to popular opinion Nigerians do not just love comedies, they love good films regardless of the genre, provided the stories are well told.” The film, which is a never-before-seen take on the backstory of terrorism, tells the delicate story of Amir (Jammal Ibrahim), a teenage orphan boy, raised in an extremist group. Amir absconds the night before a suicide mission and takes the bomb with him, he runs into Nkem (Jemima Osunde), a young girl who is trying to escape a mob. They are both running out of time. Their journey takes them through the underbelly of the city exposing the hidden backside of the African society and its dangerous culture of silence in the presence of evil. Leading to an ending that none of them could have predicted. The Delivery Boy has been breaking barriers both locally and internationally. It has screened at numerous International and Local Film Festivals across 4 continents and already picked some awards, winning the Best Nigerian Film award at The African International Film Festival AFRIFF, 2018 and also the Best Supporting Actor award at the Real Time International Film Festival. 