 [FILE PHOTO]  Anambra PHOTO: FLICKR  The programme also had 45 individuals comprising doctors, nurses, counsellors, sign language experts and other support personnel trained in the rehabilitation of sexual abuse victims. The national programme manager of RoLAC, Mr. Danladi Plang, said the centre’s establishment was informed by “the need to provide a safe space for victims of sexual abuse to be counselled, treated, and help the police and prosecuting agencies get evidence.” He noted that the centre addressed one of the issues RoLAC works on, namely providing support for victims of sexual and gender-based violence. According to Planning, United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) data has it that one in 10 boys and one in four girls are abused before they reach the age of 18, adding that it was imperative that RoLAC partners the state government in setting up a centre where victims would be attended to. He appreciated the state government for providing the legal framework that would aid in dealing with the issue relating to the Violence Against Persons Prohibition (VAPP) law while encouraging the police to set up family support units in police stations to deal with sexual violence. Meanwhile, Community Environmental Media Awareness (CEMA) has called the attention of the government and other stakeholders to the threat of erosion in Amawbia, Awka South Council of the state. Over 300 families have been sacked by gully erosion caused by excessive flooding in six villages of Amawbia. Investigations by the non-governmental organisation revealed that the erosion menace, which has consumed several important roads, was gradually cutting off the community from neighbouring Nise, Nibo, Umuokpu and Agukwu Nri communities, and that over 4,000 pupils were being prevented from accessing their schools. Speaking to the press yesterday, CEMA Director, Mr. Okey Maduforo, noted that “the situation needs urgent attention by the state government before the entire community is sacked. “Also affected by the erosion are Union Secondary School, Kabe College and May Rose Hotel, as the link roads to those public facilities have become inaccessible by motorists and other road users in Adebebe village.” When contacted, the Principal Secretary to Anambra Governor, Willie Nwokoye, and the Head of Service, Harry Uduh, all sons of Amawbia, directed newsmen to the Ministry of Works. However, the commissioner was said to be away on official assignment as at the time of the investigation. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .