 Falz  The announcement of the Best International Flow category is the latest move by BET International to recognize the growing appeal of artists from around the world. The BET Hip Hop Awards will return to Atlanta, Georgia, USA, where the winner will be announced during the global broadcast on Saturday, October 5, 2019. BET event will air on BET Africa (DSTV Channel 129) on October 9, 2019, at 6:00 PM WAT.
 
This year’s nominees for the Best International Flow category include some of Africa’s most trailblazing acts. Globally acclaimed Nigerian rapper and songwriter Falz, South African rapper, songwriter and producer Nasty C. and Awarding winning Ghanaian rapper Sarkodie rounds up the list of African nominees. They are set to compete with internationally recognised singer-songwriter Tory Lanez (Canada), hip hop artist and grime OG Ghetts (UK), rapper/singer Little Simz (UK) for the award.  “We are excited to announce the first-ever BET “Hip Hop Awards” Best International Flow Category with such diverse nominees. The award will be presented on-stage during the live broadcast, confirming BET’s commitment to recognizing the influence of international artists globally. I believe that opportunities like the BET “Hip Hop Awards” position international artists for global success long after the winners are announced.”
 
Connie Orlando, BET US’s Head of Programming, said, “We are committed to celebrating the global impact of hip-hop culture. By introducing the Best International Flow category, artists of all backgrounds, regardless of location, will have an opportunity to reach BET’s audience of over 90 million viewers worldwide. We congratulate each international nominee and look forward to celebrating their talent and contributions during the BET “Hip Hop Awards” 2019.”
 
Jesse Collins, CEO of Jesse Collins Entertainment, will serve as Executive Producer of the BET Hip Hop Awards along with Connie Orlando, BET Head of Programming and Jeannae Rouzan–Clay, Vice President of Specials, Jesse Collins Entertainment.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .