 Miss Anita Otubu (left); Mr. Goddy Jeddy-Agba,  Aliyu Magaji,   Engr.Sale Mamman, Alhaji Abdullahi Umar Ganduje,  Prof.Yemi Osinbajo,  Dr. Muhammad Buhari, Damilola Ogunbiyi, Prof. Muhammad Yahuza Bello, Alhaji Nasiru Gawuna, Dr. Mohammad Mahmoud and Alhaji Sabo Nanono with 20 all-female STEM participants  trained by Rural Electrifcation Agency,  who  received  certificates of completion for renewable energy training at the event  The project is being implemented under under the Energizing Education Programme (EEP). With the commissioning, a total of 55,815 students and 3,077 staff of BUK now have access to electricity supply from the university’s 7.1MW solar hybrid power project. The Nigerian Rural Electrification Agency (REA) is the implementing agency of the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) tasked with electrification of unserved and underserved communities. The Energizing Education Programme (EEP) is an initiative of the Federal Government of Nigeria to provide sustainable and clean power supply to 37 Federal Universities and 7 University Teaching Hospitals across Nigeria. The project includes the provision of an independent power plant, upgrading existing distribution infrastructure, street lighting to improve security within the universities’ campuses, as well as the development of a world-class training center on renewable energy for each university. The programme is being implemented in three phases and funded by the Federal Government of Nigeria, the World Bank and the African Development Bank respectively.BUK is the second project to be commissioned under Phase 1 of the EEP that provides clean and sustainable energy using solar hybrid and/or gas-fired captive power plants. The commissioning at BUK included the launch of 11.41KM of street lighting as well as a world class renewable training center. The event also featured the graduation of 20 female students who participated in the Female STEM Students Internship Programme. The female students, who received practical training in the course of the project construction were awarded certificates of completion. Vice President Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, who was a special guest on the occasion noted that the project was in tandem with President Buhari’s administration’s Next Level Roadmap and upholds the Federal Government’s adherence to global best practice in the provision of cleaner sources of energy. He reiterated that “the Energizing Education Programme is strategic to fulfilling Nigeria’s commitment to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change as it aims to reduce Nigeria’s carbon footprint using renewable energy technologies. Elated Osinbajo who couldn’t hide his joy for scoring another first by unveiling the largest off-grid solar hybrid power plant in Africa said as Nigerians, “we should all be proud of enumerating the benefits of the project. The installed 7.1MW decentralized solar hybrid power plant funded by the FGN green bond will supply over 58,000 students and staff with clean, safe and reliable electricity.  “I am sure that the entire student body, management and staff of Bayero University are proud to be beneficiaries of this, most especially as the only Federal University in Kano State and one of the longest standing ones.” According to Osinbajo, policies and objectives under the Energizing Education Programme of the administration’s Next Level roadmap remain the same, as he reiterated that the ultimate goal was to increase access to modern technical education in safe and illuminated learning environments, empower the girl child, and create jobs in the power sector value chain, amongst others. “Thus far, this project created 182 energy related jobs from power system engineers to electricians as well as trained 20 young female STEM students with the skills to contribute to strengthening our energy sector. It is initiatives like this that creates the impact for Nigeria’s socio-economic growth,” he noted. Osinbajo commended Ministries of Power and Environment for their policies and their implementations which has pushed the project thus far, the university management for their support, METKA contractor who made the project a reality as well as the Rural Electrification Agency under its managing director, Damilola Ogunbiyi and her dynamic team. Minister of Power, Engr. Sale Mamman who, coincidentally, is an alumnus of BUK expressed joy about the historic moment.According to him, “The Ministry’s power policy specifically targets education to ensure that all federal universities, to begin with, have access to reliable electricity. “Notably, the Energizing Education Programme (EEP) was designed to involve students from project inception for project sustainability.  I am delighted to be back at my alma mater as we commission the 7.1MW solar hybrid power plant, world-class workshop and training centre and solar powered streetlights under the EEP.” Recalling that the EEP was conceptualized and approved by President Buhari in 2016, the minister said, “I am privileged to take on this mantle to ensure that the policies established to promote electricity access in our country bring forth impactful and sustainable results.” Mamman seized the opportunity to commend the 20 participants of the Female STEM Internship Programme and implored them to be focused as Nigeria needs their newly acquired skills. Managing Director of REA, Damilola Ogunbiyi said: “The EEP project at BUK is the second to be commissioned as we recently commissioned the first project – a 2.8MW solar hybrid plant at Alex Ekwueme Federal University, Ndufu-Alike Ikwo, and Ebonyi State on August 2, 2019. It is noteworthy that this particular project here at Bayero University with an installed capacity of 7.1MW, is the largest off-grid solar hybrid power plant in Africa…
The mandate of REA remains “providing clean, reliable, safe and sustainable electricity to selected federal universities and teaching hospitals. We must rehabilitate existing electricity distribution infrastructure, illuminate university campuses for improved security and construct renewable energy training centres. Governor of Kano State, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, underscored the commitment to fostering technical and practical training as the EEP programme is strategically aligned to the state level job creation and capacity building objectives. In his brief remark, Vice-Chancellor, Bayero University, Prof. Muhammad Yahuza Bello said he was delighted about the history made by his institution. “The Federal Government of Nigeria’s EEP project could not have been implemented at a better time for BUK, where over 55,000 students and 3,000 staff will now experience teaching, learning and research in a more conducive and safer environment with access to clean and reliable electricity. “This is a joyous moment for not just our university, but also for Kano State, Nigeria’s second largest industrial centre. I am very excited for the expected positive impact this initiative will have in transforming the way we teach, learn, and live on our campus.” Managing Director, METKA West Africa Limited, the EPC contractor, Mr. Evangelos Kamari said the state-of-the-art solar hybrid power plant will result in carbon dioxide savings of 108,875,120Ibs, “a feat we, as green contractors, are proud of.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .