Brett Tarnutzer, Head of Spectrum, GSMA • Huge costs slowed down rollout of both 3G and 4G in developing nations
Millions of people will be unable to access mobile broadband services and improved network quality due to high spectrum prices. The Global System of Mobile Telecommunications Association (GSMA), which declared this, said the negative impacts of high spectrum prices on consumers can no longer be disputed. In its ‘The Impact of Spectrum Prices on Consumers’ survey presented at the just ended ITU Telecom World 2019, in Budapest, Hungary, GSMA said countries with poor spectrum policies, which either inflate spectrum or delay spectrum assignments – are leading to millions of people being left unable to access mobile broadband services or experiencing reduced network quality. Head of Spectrum, GSMA, Brett Tarnutzer, said spectrum auctions can’t be viewed as cash cows, adding; “Any government that prices spectrum to maximise revenue now does so with full knowledge that its actions will have negative repercussions on citizens and the development of mobile services. We now have clear evidence that shows by restricting the financial ability of operators to invest in mobile networks millions of consumers are suffering.” The GSMA study is the first to provide strong evidence to directly link high spectrum prices, and certain other spectrum management practices, to negative consumer outcomes, such as slow network rollout, reduced quality of service and poor mobile coverage. The key findings for the period analysed from 2010 to 2017 in both developed and developing countries are; in developed countries, high spectrum costs played a significant role in slowing the rollout of 4G networks and drove a long-term reduction in 4G network quality; in developing countries, spectrum prices were, on average, almost three times more expensive than in developed countries in relation to expected revenues. In these countries, high spectrum costs slowed down the rollout of both 3G and 4G networks and drove long-term reductions in overall network quality. In the countries studied with the highest spectrum prices, the average mobile operator’s 4G network would cover 7.5 per cent more of the population if they had acquired spectrum at the median spectrum price. According to GSMA, the timing of spectrum awards has a significant impact on mobile coverage. For example, if an operator was assigned 4G spectrum at least two years earlier, their 4G network population coverage would on average be 11–16 percentage points higher (all else being equal). The rollout of 3G networks was also significantly delayed in markets that licensed spectrum late, with 3G coverage levels up to 12 per cent lower during the rollout period in those markets; and the amount of spectrum licensed to operators had a significant impact on network quality. Over the period of analysis, an additional 20 MHz of 4G spectrum increased average download speeds by between 1 and 2.5 Mbps (equivalent to an increase of up to 15 per cent). “These findings have important ramifications for governments and regulators – particularly those betting on 4G and 5G as enablers of economic growth and sustainable development,” added Brett Tarnutzer. “It’s clear that unless we reverse the alarming trend of expensive auctions, this will have damaging consequences for consumers and the development of the digital economy.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .