District 9110 Governor, Rotary International, Dr. Jide Akeredolu The District 9110 Governor, Rotary International, Dr. Jide Akeredolu, has called on government at all levels to put in first place impactful programmes that would equip Nigeria youths for a self-reliant future as a way of refocusing their minds from engaging in illicit acts to seek greener pastures in other countries. He blamed lack of consistent youth policies to encourage entrepreneurship as the cause of many young Nigerians becoming objects of xenophobic attacks in some African countries, while advising the youths to spend their time in productive ventures at home and build on their skills and talents for a prosperous future. He further urged them to take advantage of some skills acquisition schemes by humanitarian organisations like Rotary to empower themselves, nothing that Rotary will not stop making lives better for the less privileged in societies across communities through its Endowment and Welfare Educational Fund Scholarship (DEWEF) and other adult education initiatives. He made this known at the installation of Rtn. Olashade Cynthia Jones-Adewale as the 33rd president of the Rotary Club of Okota and fund-raising for projects in her service year. She promised to execute programmes that would impact on humanity under Rotary’s six areas of focus, which include economic and community development, polio eradication, peace and conflict resolution, water and sanitation, donation to schools and hospitals, and skills acquisition. Also, the investiture of Rtn. Akinwale Odutola as the 36th president of Rotary Club of Gbagada held at the Yoruba Tennis Club, Onikan, Lagos State, which was also witnessed by the District Governor. Akeredolu described the club as the leading elite club in the district with membership strength of 111. He appreciated the efforts of Odutola aimed at increasing their membership, despite their status as a mega club and members’ commitment to Rotary Foundation. Odutola, in his acceptance speech, said the club has carried out renovation of a block of four classrooms, provision of a sick bay at St. Joseph Secondary School, Ishaga, Mushin and donation of 350 sanitary packs to female students of the school to encourage punctuality during their monthly cycle. The club also donated 100 desks and chairs to the school, while upcoming projects will include renovation of Iya Alapere Primary Health Centre, which also lack some medical equipment. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .