The indigenes of Odo-Ora in Ido-Osi Local Government Area of Ekiti State have called for the removal of their monarch, Oba Akinola Adeyemo, describing him as an imposter. They therefore appealed to Governor Kayode Fayemi to dethrone their traditional ruler, alleging that he was not the rightful heir, but was imposed on the community.
 
Some of the aggrieved community chiefs and residents claimed the embattled monarch, who had in February 2019 been locked out of his palace, had yet to perform the traditional rites, which could only be conducted by High Chief Olajide Ajewole, the second in command to the traditional ruler.
 
Representative of Adewoye’s family, Mrs. Alice Oke, told newsmen that the sons of Adewoye were the rightful heirs and not the Adeyemo family, adding that the Adeyemo family had wanted to sideline the two remaining ruling families, Adewoye and Idowu, whom were all from the Fatimehin’s lineage.
 
“The current monarch imposed himself on the people of Odo-Ora through the help of the former governor, Ayodele Fayose, and High Chief Samuel Fayigbe, who is the third in the hierarchy of command in the town.”
 
Also, the representative of Idowu family, Chief Florence Faniyi, appealed to Fayemi to remove the embattled monarch and install her son who is the rightful heir to the throne. The former regent explained that the Ifa oracle had been consulted and it picked her son, but Fayose with some other chiefs decided to destroy the royal lineage of the community. But the embattled monarch, Oba Adeyemo, who reacted on phone, said his accusers are ignorant. “How can some people be saying that I am not the legitimate king, when I was given a staff of office by the former governor Ayodele Fayose. I have been attending Kabiyesis Council meetings; I believe those chiefs and indigenes of Odo Ora spreading such a rumour are foolish. “There were processes that led to my emergence, we collected forms, we did interviews, the Ifa Oracle was consulted and I was chosen. Therefore, if some of the aggrieved chiefs are not satisfied with the steps that brought me to the throne, they should go to the court and file a suit,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .