German football clubs are known for their emphasis on youth development, which accounts for their ability to continually churn out quality players at all levels of the game. One of such clubs in Mainz 05, which for over 10 years have held their own among the elite of German football despite their low budget. Last week, the German club was in Port Harcourt to spread the gospel to the youths of the Garden City and club owners, who desire to set up a sustainable talent development culture. Set up at the Shell RA Club in Rumukurushe, Port Harcourt, the FSV Mainz 05 Football Camp, powered by Vandyke Football Club and hosted by the PENGASSAN Shell branch, which ends on September 06, 2019, has given the city’s football enthusiasts to learn from Coaches Robin Hassenclever and Philipp Weber, who are supported by home coaches, coaches Blessing Harrison and Sunny Gershon Ejekwu. Speaking at one of the training sessions, chairman, Rivers State Football Association, Chris Green, described the Mainz 05 camp as one of its kind in recent times in the land. “The camp is a great opportunity for youth players to develop under a very professional structure and we are very happy to work with Mainz 05 and Vandyke FC as they roll out this exciting project in the state. “This is a huge platform for players’ development in Nigeria,” said the former Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) technical committee chairman. On his impression of the country, FSV Mainz 05 Football School head, Christof Babatz said Nigeria is amazingly endowed with great football talents. “It is a well-known fact that Nigeria is a country of many talented players and we are proud to be here to help young players in their development of technical and tactical football skills,” said Babatz. Vandyke FC Director, Emeka Enyadike is one of the most trusted voices in African football and a legend of the game. He has been the driving force behind the Mainz 05 Football School partnership and expansion into Africa. “Vandyke FC is focused on talent development and with 1. FSV Mainz 05, we have created a balance between German efficiency and Nigerian flair. The training methods are dynamic and entertaining. “Our goal is to provide a platform that combines education, discipline, and passion in an environment that is driven by the professional management,” said Enyadike. The PENGASSAN Shell Branch chairman, Rowland Fredericks could not hide his excitement over the quality of talents at the display and tactical know-how of the Mainz 05 coaches. “We are happy with what is developing in our country as far as football is concerned. “The combination of Vandyke Sports and 1.FSV Mainz 05 driven by the duo of Robin and Philipp is a huge blessing for Nigeria football and we remain ever grateful,” said Fredericks. The players, coaches, officials, family, and guests were on Saturday hosted to a viewing party as Bayern Munich hosted Mainz 05 in the Bundesliga. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .