Managing Director, Galaxy Backbone, Yusuf Kazaure Mr. Yusuf Kazaure, managing director/CEO, Galaxy Backbone and his executive management team, recently played host to Professor Suleiman Elias Bogoro, executive secretary (ES), Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFUND), and members of his management team, who recently paid him a courtesy call. The visit to Galaxy Backbone’s Corporate Headquarters was to strengthen the long-standing relationship that has continued to exist between Galaxy Backbone (GBB) and TETFUND for some years now. It was also an opportunity for the ES to evaluate GBB’s modern technology infrastructure and determine its capability to handle his vision for TETFUND going forward. Mr. Kazaure in his opening remarks, welcomed the ES and his team and thanked him for the confidence and trust he has continued to show in GBB’s services and reiterated GBB’s commitment to providing excellent and efficient ICT services; ‘Galaxy Backbone is committed to consolidating ICT services in the nation’s public sector and ensuring that all agencies are connected under one network so that the government can take advantage of the gains of economies of scale’. GBB’s CEO later disclosed to the ES and his team of the many areas in which GBB has continued to help save government from spending huge amount of resources in purchasing technology Infrastructure that GBB already has and could be used for the benefit of Agencies and all Nigerians. GBB, through the visionary leadership of Mr. Kazaure has continued to uphold the service delivery of the company to International standards, while building a technology experience that now traverses the entire country, hence his invitation to TETFUND to take advantage of its fibre Infrastructure for TETFUND’s regional offices across the country. He explains further; ‘Galaxy Backbone has consistently recertified its operations based on International service standards through its ISO 27001 and ISO 20000 certification because of its commitments to ensuring that organisations that we serve experience excellence and high quality in the level of service delivery we offer. We are also laying fibre optic cables across the country to connect Federal Secretariats and Government owned Tertiary Institutions across the country’. Prof. Bogoro, the ES of TETFUND in his response, expressed his delight in the services being rendered by GBB to TETFUND and its contribution to the development and implementation of ICT services across the country most especially in today’s Knowledge driven economy where everything is driven by Information technology; “I am pleased with the level of professionalism and services Galaxy Backbone has continued to provide. GBB is doing very well and I must say, at the centre of government operations, Galaxy Backbone stands tall. We are proud to associate ourselves with GBB”, the ES TETFUND said. He also went on to express his conviction about the huge importance and attention everyone must place on Information technology if organisations must thrive in today’s digital economy most especially as it affects the Education sector. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .