Muhammad Akaro Mainoma Experts harp on collaboration to end corruption, resource mismanagement
The Association of National Accountants of Nigeria (ANAN) has said its support to end fiscal indiscipline and mismanagement of public funds is not yet over, as it affirmed plans to put a system in place to monitor and assess Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs). The accounting body said it started the concept of “Whistle Blowing‘’ in the country, which exposed several rots in public offices in the last few years. Leading about 5,000 members during its sensitization, tagged “Walk for Nation Building”, in Abuja, ANAN President, Prof. Muhammad Mainoma, said that the association had already constituted a seven-man committee to assess the MDAs. He said the accountants decided to embark on the assessment of the Federal Government agencies for public sector accountability, adding that the committee would rank the MDAs in order of performance in a bid to check corruption. “We want individuals to run away from corruption. Ours is to develop a nation where corruption will not happen. The kind of mechanism we are developing in our association is controlled mechanism. “No single individual should be in a place to start a project and complete it. Other people must be involved to avoid connivance. To do nation building, benchmarking is very essential and this is a basic pillar of the ANAN conference. “You require a lot in terms of organisation. You require some level of capacity building. Knowledge is essential if you are talking about nation building. There must be some level of sincerity of purpose. Nation building is something all hands must be on deck,’’ Mainoma said. But the Accountant-General of the Federation, Alhaji Ahmed Idris, said there is no doubt that ANAN has over the years, raised the bar of excellence in the accounting profession in Nigeria and the world at large, through post-tertiary accounting training. According to him, from the time ANAN received its Charter in 1993 to date, the association has remained resolute in effecting a positive change in the narrative and business of producing sound and professional accountants in Nigeria. “There is no better bar-raising than offering a post-tertiary accounting training such as ANAN’s, through the Nigerian College of Accountancy in Jos; a wonderful concept akin to the Nigerian Law School model.
“No doubt training has been adopted and internalised as a grand niche of the ANAN. This can be adjudged from the quality of its faculty, apt and contemporary chosen topics and the powerful deliveries,” he said. According to him, the challenges of nation building and sustainable growth are indeed enormous, noting that the prospects with particular reference to our country are promising. “The present administration is pursuing a number of deliberate policies and reform programmes to ensure that business is no longer done as usual. These reforms are being consolidated for `close marked’ application in the most efficient manner. “The Treasury is also anchoring a transparent expenditure reporting mechanism, whereby stakeholders and other interested parties, Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) and the general public inclusive, could access information on government expenditures on-line without any encumbrance,” he said. The president of the Chartered Institute of Personnel Management of Nigeria (CIPM), Wale Adediran, said the ANAN’s yearly conference was a huge opportunity for collaboration on human capital management, as the “future would belong to those who can master functional management.” Also, the President of Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS), Adedapo Adekoje, noted that the institute and ANAN would need to work together to take Nigeria to the next level.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .