Itching after sex is usually a cause for worry. Genital itching can sometimes be due to irritation such as dry skin or a lack of lubrication around the genital area. In cases where itching persists, this symptom could be a sign of an infection, allergic reaction, or sexually transmitted infection (STI). In many cases, genital itching that is caused by irritation will clear up on its own if the irritation is removed. However, if itching continues, it may be a sign of an allergy or infection which may require intensive treatment. Some of the common causes of itching after sex in males and females are: Latex Allergy: A latex allergy means that the immune system reacts strongly to any product containing latex. Latex condoms or lubricants that contain latex can cause uncomfortable symptoms in people with a latex allergy. These symptoms can include itching, redness, and swelling around the genital area after sexual activity. If you’re allergic to latex, you should try non-latex condoms. STIs: Penile or vaginal itching is one of the most common symptoms STIs. The symptom, however, depends on the type of STI. In most cases, this itching may take several days to appear. There are several STDs that can cause itching, including gonorrhoea, chlamydia, genital herpes, genital warts, trichomoniasis. Sperm allergy: Also known as Seminal plasma hypersensitivity. An allergy to the proteins present in semen can affect any part of the body that has contact with semen, including the vagina, skin, and mouth. It typically causes symptoms to develop within 10–30 minutes of the bodily contact. In addition to itching genitals, sperm allergy can cause redness, swelling, a burning sensation and pain. Vaginal Dryness: Dryness is a common cause of itching after sex. It may be due to dry skin on the vulva or vaginal dryness. That occurs when not enough vaginal secretions are produced to properly lubricate the vaginal wall. The most common cause of vaginal dryness is hormonal changes, such as those experienced during menopause and childbirth. Other causes of vaginal dryness include: not being aroused during sex, certain medications, such as birth control pills and antidepressants; irritants, such as perfumes and soaps; certain health conditions, such as diabetes and Sjögren’s syndrome; oophorectomy (surgical ovary removal). Please note, the medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.