Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige. Photo/Twitter/LabourMinNG The Non-Academic Staff Union of Educational and Associated Institutions (NASU) has urged Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige, to deploy his experience to end disagreement stalling the taking off of the N30, 000 minimum wage. The General Secretary of NASU, Peter Adeyemi noted that having midwifed and coordinated negotiations leading to a new national minimum wage, Ngige is now in a better position to untangle the web frustrating the commencement of the implementation of the new wage floor. “We are confident that not being new in the running of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration, your enviable position as an influential member of the administration and having become acquitted with the mandate of the ministry, you are now in a better position to ensure peaceful industrial atmosphere in the country. “We look forward to a continuous productive relationship between the ministry under your able leadership and our union, in your effort to move mediating and industrial regulation to the next level,”Adeyemi said. On its part, the President of NLC, Ayuba Wabba said Ngige’s re-appointment speaks volume of the confidence President Buhari reposes on him to steer the affairs of the Ministry towards the upliftment of Nigerians from poverty, indignity and indecent work conditions. “It is our expectation that you will use the rare opportunity of your re-appointment to promote and advance tripartism, social dialogue, decent work conditions and harmonious industrial relations in Nigeria,” Wabba said. Meanwhile, Mobil Producing Nigeria Unlimited said the negotiation skills of Ngige saved the international oil company industrial crisis. The Executive Vice Chairman of the company, Udom Inoyo, while leading other members of the management team on a congratulatory visit to the Minister in Abuja, said: “It took your dexterity, understanding and good negotiating skill to resolve the industrial dispute ExxonMobil faced last year. “Your re-appointment did not come to some of us as a surprise because we witnessed first-hand how efficient you could be and happy therefore that Mr President made the right choice. It is instructive that the tireless efforts, sleepless nights and experience with which you approach every negotiation is the reason for the stable industrial peace we have today. The price of such will be incalculable if they were to be measured in Naira and kobo.” In his remarks, Ngige commended ExxonMobil for making social dialogue a tool of corporate management, noting that the worker-friendly disposition of the company made it one of the few in the oil sector with minimal job losses at the outset of the first term of the present administration when the nation’s economic fortunes dipped. The Minister further applauded the international firm for an inclusive corporate social responsibility, while seeking the company’s assistance in manpower training as well as acquisition of working tools for key directorates in his Ministry. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .