 Mapo Customary Court in Ibadan has dissolved a 10-year-old marriage between Kamarudeen Babatunde and his wife  A Mapo Customary Court in Ibadan has dissolved a 10-year-old marriage between Kamarudeen Babatunde and his wife, Iyabo, over threat to life and stealing. The court’s president, Chief Ademola Odunade, yesterday in his judgment, held that since there was no more love lost between the couple, dissolution of the marriage remained the only available option left for the court. He, however, awarded custody of the only child of the marriage to Babatunde and advised them to maintain peace wherever they came across each other. Babatunde had filed for divorce, saying he was no longer interested in continuing with the marriage. He alleged that his wife was looking for every available opportunity to kill him. Babatunde tendered before the court, the knife with which his wife allegedly wanted to stab him with before he overpowered her. The defendant, who did not dispute the application for dissolution of their marriage, however, denied Babatunde’s allegations. Iyabo, a fashion designer, told the court that her husband was a drunk “and misbehaves whenever he is under the influence of alcohol.” Meanwhile, a 35-year-old unemployed man, Tayo Owoloye, on Monday told an Igando Customary Court in Lagos State that his wife brings her lover into their bedroom for sex. Owoloye is seeking to end his 11-year-old marriage to his wife, Modinat. According to him, their 11-year-old daughter told him that her mother brings a man home and she makes love to him. “I once saw her love chat on WhatsApp with a man called Timothy, when I queried her, she quickly deleted those messages. I reported her to her two eldest sisters. She is also having affairs with another man, called Stanley. “ Modinat came to my mother’s burial in Ondo State and left that same day, I later discovered that she came with Stanley and both of them lodged in a hotel that day. I was still in my village when Modinat called that she was sick and admitted, I rushed to Lagos the following day and I was told by the nurses that a man came to pass the night with her whom I later discovered to be Stanley. “When I confronted Stanley, he confessed that he is in a relationship with my wife but begged for forgiveness. I decided to know more about Stanley so I searched for him on Facebook, I saw pictures of him and my wife which was taken inside our bedroom and on our bed.” Owoloye presented to the court, printed pictures from Stanley’s Facebook page, as evidence. The petitioner said that he moved out of their matrimonial home when his wife said she needed space. However, the respondent, Modinat, who welcomed the divorce suit, also accused her husband of infidelity. “My husband had been cheating on me without my knowledge; I got to know last week when I went to his family house, where I met his new wife and a baby of about six-month-old.” The 30-year-old trader denied having affairs with Timothy and Stanley. The Court’s President, Mr. Adeniyi Koledoye, after listening to the estranged couple, urged them to maintain peace and adjourned the case until Sept. 26, for judgment. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .