 Forward player for Premier League club Leicester City Kelechi Iheanacho. Photo: TWITTER/ 67Kelechi  The former junior International voted as the most valuable player at the 2013 FIFA U-17 World Cup in the United Arab Emirates was seen as one of the brightest stars for the Super Eagles. But the former Manchester City player is now finding it hard playing regularly for Leicester and the Super Eagles. Speaking to The Guardian yesterday, Esin said that nothing comes easy as far as professional football was concerned, suggesting that since his club wants him to justify his rating, he needs to find a new challenge outside the English Premier League to restore his confidence back. “Playing for either a club or one’s country still remains an opportunity. The complaint at a time by the coach of the national team that it was because Iheanacho wasn’t working hard enough was why he was not playing regularly, might have affected him being invited to the Super Eagles. “I think he has to work hard and show a lot of commitment in his club. Missing the last Total Africa Cup of Nations (Total AFCON) is enough reason for him to fight himself back into his club starting 11 and also making his way back into the national team. But this has not happened. “His current predicament is worrisome and can also kill a player’s self-esteem. He has to build himself back psychologically like that big player that City saw in him when they bought him after the U-17 World Cup,” he said, adding that if Iheanacho cannot get himself back either into the national team or club, that it becomes a misery. Esin, who is the first foreign professional player from his Akwa Ibom State, said he felt sorry for Iheanacho, “You would have expected him to be at Arsenal or any other top clubs. Now in Leicester and you cannot command a shirt, it deepens a player’s morale. I think he has to really fight back and prove a point. “His agent needs to look for another club outside England, maybe another challenge in places like Spain or anywhere that will favour him so that he can play regularly. Without this, you lose confidence and you will keep on going down even when you are being introduced in a match,” he stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .