 ODESSA, TEXAS – AUGUST 31: Police officers investigate the scene where a gunman was shot and killed at Cinergy Odessa movie theater on August 31, 2019 in Odessa, Texas. Officials say the unidentified suspect killed 5 people and injured 21 in Odessa and nearby Midland.   Cengiz Yar/Getty Images/AFP  Police had said Saturday that five people died and 21 were wounded in the extended shootout on roads between the cities of Midland and Odessa. The assailant died in a shootout with police outside an Odessa movie theater. On Sunday, an Odessa city spokesman told reporters that there were now eight confirmed deaths, including the shooter — three in Midland and five in Odessa — NBC affiliate NewsWest9 reported. The shooter’s identity and motive have yet to be released, though police described him as a white man in his mid-30s. The incident began when troopers tried to pull over a gold-colored passenger vehicle on the Interstate 20 highway. ODESSA, TX – SEPTEMBER 1: A damaged police vehicle and U.S. Postal Service van blocked off with tape nearby to where a gunman was shot and killed at Cinergy Odessa movie theater following a deadly shooting spree on September 1, 2019 in Odessa, Texas. Seven people had been killed, in addition to the gunman and at least 21 others were wounded, including three law enforcement officers after a gunman went on a rampage. The man who has not been identified fled from state troopers who had tried to pull him over. The gunman then hijacked a United States postal van and indiscriminately fired from a rifle at people before the authorities shot and killed him outside a movie theater in Odessa.   Cengiz Yar/Getty Images/AFP  One trooper was wounded, and the suspect fled “and continued shooting innocent people,” the department said. The shooter led police on a wild chase during which he hijacked a US postal truck and opened fire at random. Coming less than a month after a gunman killed 22 people in the Texas city of El Paso — less than 300 miles (480 kilometers) west of Odessa — the latest bloodshed has ignited fresh calls for steps to stem the US scourge of mass shootings. On a Twitter message Sunday, US President Donald Trump congratulated Texas law enforcement, the FBI and first responders for their response to “the terrible shooting tragedy yesterday… A very tough and sad situation!” ODESSA, TX – SEPTEMBER 1: Flowers hang on the Odessa Police Department sign following a deadly shooting spree on September 1, 2019 in Odessa, Texas. Seven people had been killed, in addition to the gunman and at least 21 others were wounded, including three law enforcement officers after a gunman went on a rampage. The man who has not been identified fled from state troopers who had tried to pull him over. The gunman then hijacked a United States postal van and indiscriminately fired from a rifle at people before the authorities shot and killed him outside a movie theater in Odessa.   Cengiz Yar/Getty Images/AFP  While he himself spoke after the El Paso shooting of requiring “strong background checks” to prevent unstable people from purchasing guns, Trump said Sunday that recent history showed that “as strong as you make your background checks, they would not have stopped any of it.” But former Texas congressman Beto O’Rourke, who is seeking the Democratic presidential nomination, bluntly disagreed. He told CNN on Sunday that “if we’re not able to act decisively, then we will continue to have this bloodshed.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .