 Biodun Olujimi  The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State has rejected the tribunal verdict that sacked the senator representing Ekiti South Senatorial District, Dayo Adeyeye and declared his predecessor, Senator Biodun Olujimi, as winner. The party described the judgment as a travesty of justice, saying that the APC won the February 23, 2019 senatorial election in the state.In a unanimous verdict, the three-man election petition tribunal, headed by Justice Danladi Adeck, had in its judgment last week cancelled votes in some units across the six local councils in the district to declare Olujimi winner. Meanwhile, the APC stakeholders in the district, who spoke after a meeting in Omuo-Ekiti, headquarters of Ekiti East Local Council yesterday, described the judgment as strange and clear negation of the wishes of the people in the senatorial district. The APC senatorial chairman in the district, Akin Akinbobola, said the judgment amounted to truncating the desire of the people as demonstrated during the general election.“We are surprised by the outcome of the tribunal; we reject it and it will not stand the test of time because the people voted for APC. “The outcome was meant to rob us of victory and put our party in disarray as well as raise unnecessary dust in the area, but we are not bothered,” he said.Also, an APC youth leader in Ekiti East, Gbade Olusegun,  said:  “It is unfortunate that the tribunal acted contrary to the wishes of the people by awarding undeserved victory to the PDP candidate. We assure that the celebration by the opposition members would be shortlived. “The tribunal had delivered its verdict, which is more or less a joy that will soon be truncated.” In another development, Speaker of the Ekiti State House of Assembly, Funminiyi Afuye, has urged Nigerians to mount pressure on the National Assembly to rework the constitution to allow for the reintroduction of History in the country’s educational curriculum. Afuye, who spoke yesterday at the state secretariat in Ado-Ekiti during a stakeholders’ meeting on Ekiti Parapo Festival billed to hold on October 2-5 at Okemesi Ekiti, said the military government of Gen. Ibrahim Babangida expunged History from the curriculum out of ignorance. Afuye, who spoke yesterday at the state secretariat in Ado-Ekiti during a stakeholders’ meeting on Ekiti Parapo Festival billed to hold on October 2-5 at Okemesi Ekiti. “The removal of History shows that the struggle for the restructuring of Nigeria continues, because each state should be able to legislate on its own educational policy.  History is very important in the life of any nation,” he said.He said the state Assembly won’t hesitate to enact a law backing Governor Kayode Fayemi’s pronouncement that History must be reintroduced into Ekiti’s education policy. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .