 Darius Ishaku  AS calculations for the 2023 election cycle gain currency, an anti-corruption activist, Chief Dennis Aghanya, has warned Igbo of Southeast to cease further cyber attacks on President Muhammadu Buhari for his school certificate and start keying into his succession plan.  On 2023 presidency, the anti-corruption activist said: “The North and Southwest are already strategising respectively on how to outsmart each other to clinch the ticket come 2023, but here we are occupying ourselves with the quest for President Buhari’s certificate. This is not good enough for us as a component part of the Nigerian federation. There is competition among the various tribes and we must desist from chasing shadows when others are chasing substance.
 
“We must not be seen as rebellious people at every slightest development, especially when it is not our battle. It is a total deviation from our value system of ‘live and let live’. Let’s learn to mind our business and allow others to sort out their problems.” Patch-up in Taraba
FOLLOWING the political differences that led to the massive defection of some notable members in 2013, leaders of Taraba PDP have been applying all known strategies to lure some of the chieftains back. The recent defection of ‘Mama Taraba’ alongside the entire party executives of UDP to PDP came as a huge reward for the reconciliation efforts.
 
It would be recalled that the former Minister for Women Affairs left APC for UDP, citing “inhuman treatment” meted out to her and her supporters by the party a few weeks to the last general elections. She contested the March 9, 2019 gubernatorial poll in the state under UDP platform. Prominent UDP stalwarts that joined her in PDP include the state chairman, Alhaji Sani Chul and his deputy, Daniel Ishaya Gani, as well as other influential players.
 
The massive crossover, which was ostensibly in readiness for the 2023 electoral showdown, has not only uprooted UDP from the state, but also strengthened the ruling PDP, which has been controlling the state since the advent of democracy 20 years ago. Kicking-off the exodus last Saturday from UDP to PDP at Unity Hall in Jalingo, ‘Mama Taraba’ said the decision to return to PDP that brought her to limelight “has become necessary for the growth of the party, the state and the country at large.”
 
Although some observers believe her move was to further prove her loyalty to her political godfather, Alhaji Abubakar Atiku, who was PDP’s presidential candidate in the last polls, others see her defection as a strategic positioning for the governorship, which she has been craving. The notable female politician did not hint at the jostle for the 2023 gubernatorial election, but The Guardian reliably gathered that should PDP adhere to its zoning policy, the former minister would be left with no option than to revive her aspiration alongside others from Taraba North geopolitical zone.
 
In line with the power rotation arrangement in the state, both Taraba Central and South have had their turns on the governorship seat. Consequently, Tarabans are looking forward to the northern part to produce the next governor. Constituency consultation
FORMER UDP chairman, Sani Chul, disclosed that before the decision to quit UDP, a five-man committee was set up by the party, which “carried out wide consultations and survey on people’s views.” He said the committee, which was chaired by a former APC chieftain, who had earlier decamped with the former minister to UDP, Alhaji Abdulmumuni Vaki, “after going round and consulting with the people, agreed that Jumai should defect to PDP.”
 
Chul said: “The committee under the chairmanship of Alhaji Abdukmumuni Vaki recommended that all the opinions sampled from the masses and supporters of UDP from the 168 wards of the 16 local government councils in the state agreed that Senator Alhassan should join PDP for the development of Taraba State.”
 
Also, the former UDP deputy chairman, Daniel Ishaya Gani, said it was the unanimous decision of supporters of the party across the length and breadth of the state that prompted the entire UDP state structure to “decamp with ‘Mama Taraba’ back to PDP.”As at the time of filing this report, the defectors have not been officially received by Taraba PDP. But sources confirmed that the party’s top hierarchy was in the know and accepted their entry in principle. A source in the party told The Guardian that there was no way such a huge political development could have taken place without prior discussions at the highest level.
 
Also elated by the new impetus, the spokesperson of Taraba State PDP, Alhaji Inuwa Bakari declared: “Her (‘Mama Taraba’) coming would add value to PDP, because politics is a game of numbers. We are aware that she and her supporters have dumped their former political party for PDP. The party will embrace her, because she will definitely enhance the value and fortunes of our party.”
 
Refusing to comment on the likely motivations for joining PDP even when the tribunal has ruled against Atiku, Bakari was optimistic that the former minister for Women Affairs’ presence in PDP would not only strengthen the party at the state and national levels, but also pave the way for more opposition actors to toe her path. He assured that the party would continue to provide level playing ground for all aspirants seeking elective positions irrespective of gender or agenda.
 
Recalling the difficulties PDP encountered in previous elections, other stakeholders, who spoke to The Guardian, agreed that the return of ‘Mama Taraba’ would make the 2023 election a walkover for the party. A foundation member of the party, who pleaded anonymity, said: “I’m sure you are aware of the difficulties PDP encountered before winning past elections? So, with her return such difficulties would be minimised, because she is not only a grassroots politician, but a woman of the people.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .