The Kogi Government on Monday expressed satisfaction over the impressive attendance of teachers in the state as schools resumed for the first term 2019/2020 academic activities. Mr Eric Aina, the Permanent Secretary Kogi Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, made the remark after monitoring some schools for resumption on Monday in Lokoja. Aina, who spoke on behalf of the Ministry’s Commissioner, Mrs Rosemary Osikoya, commended the teachers for their impressive turnout, saying the State Government was proud of them and urged them to keep it up. According to Aina, all schools in Kogi have resumed full academic activities for the third term 2019/2020 Academic Session on Sept. 9; we are out to monitor the level of compliance by schools as directed by the commissioner. ”We are more concerned about teachers’ attendance in school today because, by the directive of the commissioner, teachers are supposed to resume a week before the actual date of resumption. ”This is to enable them to update their registration, draw out the work plan and write their lesson note in preparation for the students’ resumption, so that teaching can commence on resumption date. ”We have a responsibility as teachers in human resources to teach and produce responsible students and leaders of tomorrow, we make the necessary sacrifice. ”We are impressed with the turnout of teachers in all the schools we have visited today, and we commend the principals and teachers for making the government proud. ”We are impressed with the attendance of teachers and we appreciate their efforts, we also implore them to intensify such efforts,” he said. He, however, expressed his disappointment over the low turnout of students and pupils in schools and appealed to parents and guardians to release their wards to resume school as teaching would commence in earnest. Hajia Liman Mustapha, the Director, Quality Assurance Department of the education ministry, also commended the teachers for their large turnout. Mustapha stressed that the commissioner and the ministry had taken the issue of timely resumption to school, and delivery of quality standard education, as very critical. She urged the teachers to devise strategies of motivating students who wanted to resume in school at every resumption date in form of test assessment. All the Principals of the various schools visited, in their separate comments, commended the ministry for the monitoring, saying it had spurred them to put in their best. Mr Ibrahim Onipe, Principal, Govt. Science Secondary School, Lokoja, the ministry’s monitoring team, adding that teachers were on ground to begin work. “The teachers have been instructed to start teaching tomorrow. We urge parents to release their wards as full academic activities have resumed. One of the students, Janet Ayodoye in SS 2, told NAN that she was glad to be back in school after a long vacation, saying she was also happy that their teachers were on the ground. Some of the schools visited include Bishop Crowther Memorial College, Govt. Science Secondary School, Lokoja, Govt. Day Sec. Sch., Adankolo, UBE JSS Adankolo, St. Luke Model School, Lokoja and Muslim Sec. Sch., Lokongoma, among others.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .