President, St. Patrick’s College (SPC) Asaba Old Boys Association, Prof. Epiphany Azinge (left); Secretary General, Tony Odiadi; and Secretary, Lagos branch, Francis Dike, during the visit of officials of the association to Rutam House, headquarters of The Guardian in Lagos…yesterday.<br />PHOTO: FEMI ADEBESIN-KUTI To rid the country’s educational institutions of examination malpractice, there is the need to introduce whistle-blowing in the sector. President, St. Patrick’s College (SPC) Asaba Old Boys Association, Professor Epiphany Azinge, stated this yesterday when he visited Rutam House, headquarters of The Guardian. “To tackle examination malpractice, the question of whistle-blowing should be encouraged in all schools. Not blowing to the principal, but to the regulatory bodies and supervisory offices like ministries of education,” he canvassed. The Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), who was accompanied by the secretary-general of the association, Tony Odiadi, and the secretary, Lagos branch, Francis Dike, disclosed that the visit was part of activities lined up for the 75th anniversary of their alma mater, which will be a huge gathering of the alumni. The grand reunion/dinner billed for Saturday, September 28, 2019, at Muson Centre, Onikan, he added, will raise fund to establish a 21st century library, among other projects. He expressed hope that institutions and individuals of like minds would share their ideas and support their vision. According to him, the old boys are forever indebted to their alma mater, an institution of the Catholic Church, for inculcating good virtues and values that helped shape their lives. He acknowledged the grooming received in the school, which, he said, contributed a great deal to their lifetime achievements. On the allegation that most schools abet examination malpractice to score cheap points among other schools, Azinge said: “The last thing a Catholic school will do or encourage is examination malpractice. “Character formation and good principles are paramount in the school and the standard is still the same till date. We are properly groomed, and not just trained to pass examination, to hold our own and excel in our various endeavours. “The moral upbringing we received helped us to navigate through the terrain of public offices without being stained by things that are common in Nigeria. That is the quality of St. Patrick’s College. “The problems and rots ravaging the education sector is within the system and therefore should be tackled within the system, even if it means engaging the law enforcement agencies during examinations. “If we are able to do this and place emphasis on vocational skills, rather than certificates, we will produce better students who will not only apply their knowledge in solving societal problems, but also would become ambassadors of the Nigeria wherever they go.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .