There is so much beef out here on the streets while the people are growing hungry in their homes! If you think that there is an unhealthy rivalry between two of Africa’s biggest music stars, Tiwa Savage and Yemi Alade, then you need to have a rethink. In a subtle but classy way, Tiwa Savage has shut down long peddled rumours that there is a rivalry about who is the biggest female African artist between herself and Yemi Alade. Tiwa Savage Taking to her Instagram page to lay the rumours to rest with a shout out to Yemi Alade, Tiwa Savage congratulated the former on her recently released ‘Woman of Steel’ album. The ‘Ma Lo’ crooner shared the album art and wrote: “Been meaning to post this for a few days now but been so caught up. Huge congrats on a great body of work Queen @YemiAlade. For sure, you be WOMAN OF STEEL.” Yemi Aade| Photo Spring ng This shout out is coming just on the heels of Tiwa’s interview on Factory 78 to promote her latest music offering, ‘49-99’  that was released yesterday, September 5. Savage gave a shout-out to her fellow African female artists after a member of the audience asked her who she will do a collaboration with next. She replied, “Oh man, there’s many many queens, man. Come on, like Yemi Alade just dropped an incredible body of work, huge shout-out to her. Errrm, who doesn’t like Teni The Entertainer? Like, she’s incredible. Simi, Niniola, Waje, Omawumi…” “We even have Vanessa Mdee from the east, we have Becca whom I have done records with as well. And even the females from the UK, like you have Tomi… There’s so many… Lola Rae…” After she had given the shout-outs, she then charged women to fight because men can be difficult to deal with. She said, “(To keep doing it big) We just need to fight.” She then joked that, “You men are just ruling us, ah… Agbara yin po (Your powers are you much). African men are stubborn. (Laughs)” We recently reported that in the wake of the xenophobic attacks on Nigerians in South Africa, the Universal Music artist cancelled her scheduled performance in the country. She was billed to perform during the DSTV Delicious Festival in Johannesburg on the 21st of September.