A cross section of youths listening to instructions before a recent edition of the Awa Ibraheem Junior Championships at the Ikeja Golf Club. The Nigeria Golf Federation (NGF) has listed 95 young players for the Sixth Awa Ibraheem Junior Golf Championship scheduled to hold from October 17 to19, 2019 at the Ikeja Golf Club. The competition is for players of 17 years and below. Among the players are 13 girls from age 10 down, and 10 boys also of not more than 10 years. The invited girls of 11 to 14 years are 18; their boys’ counterparts are 22, while girls of 15 to 18 years are 10, just as their boys; counterparts are 22. The Awa Ibraheem Junior Championship, which is registered with the R & A, will this year count as a World Ranking Junior Golf Event (WRJGA). According to the NGF, participation in this year’s championship is based on the Junior National Order of Merit (OM), with the best 90 junior players on the list, spread over the different categories ages 6-17 years, will participate. “In line with the World Ranking event requirement of at least 54-holes or three days event; event schedule will run as follows: “A. October 17 – Arrival / Registration “B. October 18 – 1st Day of Competition. “Ages 12 to 17 years will play 36 holes, others nine and 18 holes depending on the category,” the NGF said. It revealed that there would be a cut after the first day of competition, adding that the championship would serve as one of the national trials for the All Africa Junior Team Championship billed for Egypt next year. “The Order of Merit is based on three categories (Under 10, 11-14, 15 – 18) and this event is for 17 years and under, therefore a list of qualified participants will be sent out before September 7,” it said. The NGF advised the various clubs, whose players were invited in the 15 to 18 years category, to confirm that they “are within the age limits by sending proof of their birth certificates via whatsapp, on or before September 15. “For the others, please send us a copy of your birth certificate or proof of age on or before September 30, to enable us fix you at the appropriate category.
You can also send it via email.” It warned that failure to produce the proof at the time mentioned would disqualify the player from the event, adding, “If any insincerity or fraud with regards to document sent as proof by any participant is detected, he or she will be suspended from this event in future. We also have records to compare with.” All the participants, according to the federation, would be entitled to free accommodation, feeding and entry fee.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .