 Ogechi Ofurum-Omeike  “With the current innovations in the technological space and the role of artificial intelligence in making the world smarter, it becomes unsustainable to raise our kids with moribund principles that do not adequately prepare children for the future,” she said. According to the author, “it is, therefore, vital to review these out-dated parental principles and come up with new strategies in raising our kids to become indispensable in a smart world. These thoughts birthed the need to write a book.” She said no child is born unintelligent, however, raising a smart kid is totally dependent on the strategies deployed by parents, guardians and teachers in engaging their children. According to her, a solid foundation is essential to the growth and development of a child. “In the book, I clearly spelled out the roles parents may play from when the child is in the womb to the preschool days and beyond in creating a safe haven for the child. Articulately stating the key principles parents, guardians, teachers, school management and any other group of childcare givers may implement in raising smarter kids. “In my work as a parent, teacher, and education consultant, I have repeatedly come to the realization that the determining factor that enables a child to excel and outperform her contemporaries are totally dependent on the strategies deployed by parents, guardians, and teachers in raising their kids. Raising a child is a collaborative effort of the home front and school. Each reinforcing value upheld by the different stakeholders.” The author examines the impact of effective communication, peer group, motivation, discipline, enriched environment and homefront (hostile or friendly) on the child. Also, the role of the school; structure, content, class size, teacher’s attitude and teaching style in raising a smarter child were analysed in the book. On what makes the book different from others, she said: “Raising Smarter Kids is an awesome parenting guide and the content is made up of conclusions from related researches and real-life experiences. No child is born dull or unintelligent; therefore, raising a smarter kid that is cerebral with the ability to offer value and compete favourably in today’s fast-paced world is totally dependent on the strategies deployed by parents, guardians, and teachers in engaging their children. I enjoy writing because it gives me the ability to articulately express my thoughts and ideas on paper.” On her advise to aspiring writers, she said, “I am literary going to state what my mentor said to me when I expressed my desire to be a writer to him: He said; ‘get a book, write your thoughts down as the inspiration and ideas emanate. They may not make any meaning but be assured that at some point; all the bits and pieces would fit in.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .