Nigerian music diva, Tiwa Savage has taken to her Twitter account to announce that she will not be performing in South Africa later this month as earlier scheduled. The ‘African Waist’ crooner made this known in the wake of the recent xenophobic attacks on Nigerians by South Africans that has since led to Nigerians retaliating by attacking South African owned businesses operating in Nigeria. Savage who is just one of the many prominent Nigerian celebrities to react to the xenophobic attacks made it clear that she will not stand and watch her people butchered. She tweeted: “I refuse to watch the barbaric butchering of my people in SA. This is SICK. For this reason I will NOT be performing at the upcoming DSTV delicious Festival in Johannesburg on the 21st of September. My prayers are with all the victims and families affected by this.” A South African fan of the songstress replied Savage by telling her that no one has butchered her people but Savage responded that the killing of any African makes it her people whether the person happens to be Nigerian or not. Another follower responded to Savage by saying that she is misinformed and her post suggests that she is in support of drug dealing. The follower wrote: “South Africa is my second home, i know cause I have seen with my eyes the situation and you are misinformed, there would be no drugs to buy if there were no dealers, from this it’s clear you are in support of drug dealing in SA.” Savage was, however, quick to deny being in support of drug dealing when she tweeted: “I’m not in support of drug dealing nor am I in support of killing. The solution to fighting drug crime is not killing my dear brother.” In a response tweet to those trolling her for cancelling her scheduled performance, she wrote: “But yet I was booked to perform at the festival. This is a serious issue were NO ONE wins when blood is shed whether old videos or not. Issue needs to be resolved. We Africans (including South Africans) need each other.” In the wake of the xenophobic attacks, the Nigerian federal government has summoned the South African High Commissioner, Bobby Moore,