Ondo State Police Command has ordered investigation into a brawl that happened in a night club in Akure on Saturday night, involving a police Sergeant, Taiwo, who allegedly stabbed nine people while drunk. In a statement made available to journalists in Akure on Monday, the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mr. Femi Joseph revealed that the police had begun investigation into the incident. He noted that all the victims were engaged in the brawl, adding that the policeman, who is attached to the office of the area commander, was also injured in the fight and had been taken to the hospital for treatment. “There was a fight between the policeman and the boys, but we have started investigation into matter. All those involved in the brawl are already in the hospital receiving treatment,” Joseph said. “But if at the end of the day we find our man culpable, we will deal with him because we don’t tolerate indiscipline in this command,” he added. According to eyewitnesses, the policeman, Orisadare, who was said to be drunk at a popular club located in Alagbaka, GRA, Akure, started harassing the victims who had come to relax at the club. One of them recounted that “Trouble started when the policeman began pestering and harassing one of the victims. According to reports, it was so clear that he (Orisadare) was so drunk and was already becoming something else at the club. “He won’t just listen to those trying to tell him to take things easy. It got to a point that things went awry as he started attacking everyone he could lay his hands on. In total, he stabbed nine people before he could be overpowered.” However, another source noted that only two people were critically injured by the police officer while others only sustained minor bruises while trying to curtail the excesses of the drunk officer. But Joseph refuted the allegations, saying “This story is nothing but a blatant lie from the pit of hell,craftily concocted to deceive the reading public. To set the record straight, there was a social gathering organised by a friend to one of our policemen, Sergeant Taiwo Orishalade at a popular eatery in Akure to celebrate the birthday of his girlfriend. “The police officer who was not on official duty and also not in uniform sat with some other invited guests at the party. At a point, some boys who apparently identified the police officer even though he was in mufti, approached him to buy drinks for them.” The PPRO revealed that the officer told them that he was invited by a friend to the party and that he did not have enough money on him to accede to their request. “The boys who were apparently drunk and appeared like miscreants, insisted that the officer must buy them drinks or leave the scene, or in the alternative be ready to be killed just like they did to his colleague inspector sometime ago. “The officer pleaded with them to take things calmly, but in a twinkle of an eye, one of the boys slapped him while the other one took a bottle smashed it and stabbed the sergeant with it. “Naturally, he had to fight back which resulted into injuries to the three of them. The three of them involved in the incident including the policeman were taken to the hospital, treated and discharged.” He added that the Commissioner of Police, CP Undie Adie has ordered a full-scale investigation into the incident, disclosing that “our preliminary investigation revealed that only three people were involved in the incident. “The policeman and two others and not nine people as being bandied by some section of the media. The other three involved were Adegoke Tapere and Oladeji Cardoso. “It must be added that all efforts to invite the two boys involved to come and give statement to the police have not yielded any positive result as they have bluntly refused to turn themselves in at the police station. “The general public is hereby enjoined to disregard the wild exaggeration of the story why the command continues with the investigation of the incident.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .