DJ Khaled and wife, Nicole Tuck are about to make Asahd a big brother. He broke the news on Instagram while posting a video of his wife receiving an ultrasound. Just when I thought life couldn’t get any better, I received another blessing that my queen is expecting an addition to our legacy, DJ Khaled, wrote on Instagram. This will be the pair's second child, nearly three years after the birth of their first son, Asahd. God is the greatest. All I ever wanted to do was inspire the world to be great and to leave a legacy. Almost 3 years ago when I found out my queen was expecting our son Asahd I knew my life would change forever and that OUR legacy would soon be on the way. , DJ Khaled, via Instagram. DJ Khaled also seemingly revealed that the child was a boy, exclaiming his love for his “little boy.”.And to the little boy in my QUEEN’SBELLY ... I LOVE YOU SO MUCH! , DJ Khaled, further stated on Instagram   God is the greatest. All I ever wanted to do was inspire the world to be great and to leave a legacy.  Almost 3 years ago when I found out my queen was expecting our son Asahd I knew my life would change forever and that OUR legacy would soon be on the way.  After that blessing I released some of my biggest albums to date (Grateful and Father Of Asahd) inspired by his greatness.  Just when I thought life couldn’t get any better, I received another blessing that my queen is expecting an addition to our legacy.  I’m feeling more inspired than ever now.  As we go into this journey I’m taking FANLUV along with me to keep the love and blessings flowing to the world ! #FAMILY God is the greatest. MAMA ASAHD ,ASAHD WE GOT ANOTHER ONE !!!!!!!!!!!!!!! ALLAH I LOVE YOU SO MUCH !!!!!  MY QUEEN I LOVE YOU SO MUCH !  ASAHD I LOVE YOU SO MUCH !  And to the little boy in my QUEEN’S BELLY  I LOVE YOU SO MUCH !  #WETHEBEST ! A post shared by  DJ KHALED (@djkhaled) on Sep 12, 2019 at 10:17am PDT    The parents-to-be welcomed their firstborn in 2016 and the deejay has since dedicated his music to his son, even giving Asahd an executive producer credit on all of his albums. DJ Khaled recently raved about his family, telling PEOPLE in May: “[I’m focused on] being the most amazing father and the most amazing king to my queen. She’s so beautiful! She’s the most beautiful woman I’ve ever seen in my life. And my son is everything.”