• Rohr calls up Dennis, Maja Arsenal legend, Ray Parlour has advised Chelsea’s Tammy Abraham to wait for the opportunity to play for England rather than pledge allegiance to Nigeria. According to a report by talksports.com, 21-year-old Abraham, whose father is Nigerian, has featured at every youth level for England and already has two senior caps. However, he has yet to make a competitive international appearance, which allows him to switch allegiance, and Nigeria have reportedly made contact in an attempt to secure his services. Despite an impressive start to the campaign, with four goals in his two most recent Premier League games, the Blues striker was left out of Gareth Southgate’s squad for the upcoming Euro qualifiers against Bulgaria and Kosovo. But former England international, Parlour insists Abraham will get his chance if he stays patient. “If he keeps scoring goals, he will definitely get into the England squad,” the ex-Arsenal midfielder told talkSPORT. “Jamie Vardy has retired and they’re lacking a little bit upfront. “He’s got an opportunity to be in the squad, but obviously he won’t be in front of Harry Kane.” The debate surrounding international allegiance sprung up earlier this year when West Ham’s Declan Rice committed his future to England, despite representing the Republic of Ireland on numerous occasions. And Parlour suggests Abraham should consider loyalty when choosing between England and Nigeria. “Once you start with a country as a youngster, I think you should stick with them,” Parlour added. “It’s up to the player; he’s looking at whether he’ll get an opportunity. “It’s a battle, because there are a lot of good players in England, and you’ll get a lot more caps if you go elsewhere.” Southgate is well aware of Abraham’s talents, having coached the striker during his time in charge of England Under-21s. Parlour continued: “As a manager, you’d be on the phone straight away saying, ‘You’re in my plans, keep playing as you are, and you’ll get an opportunity’. That’s what I’d be doing if I was Gareth Southgate.” Meanwhile, Super Eagles’ Manager, Gernot Rohr has called up Club Brugge forward Emmanuel Dennis and Bordeaux star, Josh Maja to the squad preparing for the forthcoming friendly against Ukraine. Dennis, who recently extended his contract at Club Brugge till 2022, has already been capped by Nigeria in the U23s. French Ligue 1 club Bordeaux have also announced that Josh Maja, 20, has also been called up for the friendly on September 10 in Dnipro. Maja is eligible to play for Nigeria or England, where he was born by Nigerian parents. News of the latest invitations come on the heels of the report that CD Leganes defender Kenneth Omeruo will not be available. Omeruo is processing his work permit in Spain. A batch of the Eagles squad to Ukraine will fly out from Abuja tomorrow. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .