 Dapo Abiodun  The governor urged religious bodies and other organisations in Ogun to join the state in its quest to make life meaningful for its people, saying that the task of providing for people could only be achieved if all hands are on deck. Abiodun spoke at the second plenary session of the Catholic Bishops Conference of Nigeria held at the Sacred Heart Catholic College, Abeokuta. He said that he was pleased with the church for its contribution to the socio-economic economic development of the state, adding that the Catholic Church in the past had played an important role in the areas of health delivery and education. Abiodun also noted that his administration was glad that the Catholic Church decided to have its plenary session at the early stage of the current administration in the state, adding that the session was an affirmation that God was present and that the recent decision of the election tribunal in his favour showed that God is able. At the bishops conference with Abiodun were the Governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi; Minister of Women Affairs, Mrs. Pauline Tallen; Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi and Plateau State Governor, Mr. Simon Lalong, among others. The governor, who also appreciated the judiciary, his team of lawyers and party members who stood by him while the court cases lasted, said that he could not have opted to be in another party apart from APC.He said: “This (victory) is further affirmation that indeed, with God, nothing shall be impossible. This victory is for Ogun State people who have entrusted me with this mandate. It has been contested in so many courts. “I have gone through probably one of the most turbulent periods any governor could have gone through. I went through several pre-election cases, about eight or nine and also this tribunal. But God has continued to remain God. “This mandate is a divine mandate and I believe that is obvious to all. This is a decision of the people of Ogun State and was further ratified by the people yesterday (Saturday).  “It is not because I am the best in the state or I am special. God has just given me the assignment to lead Ogun State at this point in time. I have pledged I will do so with all God has given me.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .