 Director General (NITDA), Pantami. Photo/Twitter/nitdanigeria  The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) put ICT’s contribution to the GDP at 13.8 per cent in the second quarter, while oil and gas was put at 8.8 per cent. Pantami was speaking at the ongoing International Telecommunications Union (ITU) Telecom World 2019) in Budapest, Hungary. As the leader of Nigerian delegation to the yearly event, Pantami said the “government wants to sustain the steady growth of ICT” in the country; hence the need to attend events that will enable delegates network and get the best ideas.The minister commended the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) for seeing to the country’s participation and told the delegates to maximise the opportunity provided by the attendance. The Executive Vice Chairman (EVC) of NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta, told the minister that the commission decided, this year, not to erect a pavilion, which is consistent with the cost-saving measures of the Federal Government.He said, “The ministry is aware of this cost-cutting measures we put in place to scale down the resources we deploy in hosting Nigeria at important international events. We have provided information on what agencies under the Ministry of Communications are doing to grow the ICT sector in Nigeria.”Meanwhile, to check cyber crime, NCC has initiated a process to establish an Internet Industry Code of Practice for service providers in the country. Danbatta, at the 109th edition of the Consumer Outreach Programme organised by the Commission in Osogbo, Osun State, described the code as a regulatory intervention to guard the nation’s cyber space against hackers. The EVC, who spoke through the Deputy Director, Consumer Affairs Bureau, Alhaji Ismail Adedigba, said the code would address issues such as online child protections, privacy and data protection.Speaking on the theme ‘Mitigating Effects of Cybercrime: The Roles of Telecom Consumers’, the NCC chief noted that the theme was carefully chosen to sensitise telecom consumers on the rising wave of cybercrime in its various forms, the dangers it poses and the roles consumers should play.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .