Ambode Lagos shuts 20 health facilities to check quackery
Protesters, under the aegis of Lagos Youth Vanguard (LYV), yesterday stormed the Lagos State House of Assembly and demanded probe of former Governor Akinwunmi Ambode of the state over alleged corrupt activities.The protesters, who chanted solidarity songs, were led by Patron of the LYV, Mr. Rasak Olokooba and President of the group, Mr. Ibrahim Ekundina. Some of the placards of the protesters read: “Ambode, submit yourself for probe,” “Ambode must be probed,” “EFCC do your job,” “Ambode awarded fake contracts,” among others. The Lagos Youth Vanguard stated in their leaflets that were distributed to journalists that Ambode “deliberately laid landmine through the obvious improper, inappropriate and insufficient content in his handover note that should serve as a guide to the incoming administration in the tradition of every civilised public officer.” They accused Ambode of flouting so many government procedures, saying that he refused to abide by the procurement laws.He was accused of wrong priority in policies and programmes and abandoning the track that can bring about development in the state. “We call for his probe and investigation with a view to apportioning penalty and dishing out appropriate penalties.“We want to assure the good people of Lagos State, including all the people that care about Lagos and the people of Lagos that we will continue to pursue every legitimate means until justice is done,” they said. Speaking with journalists, Olokooba said that it was good to be fair to every administration, adding that they had watched events for 90 days and that there were clear indications that the former governor had been going about to disrupt the activities of the current administration. “For every government that is going out, you leave a template for the coming government to succeed.“Ambode handed over a very rickety handing over note that cannot assist the current administration.“If you go round the state today, you will see that there is no governor that would inherit such state and the people of the state would be happy with him, but thank God that the goodwill enjoyed by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu is still intact, if not, by now, the people of Lagos State would have been complaining bitterly,” the group stated. Meanwhile, while addressing the protesters, a member of the House, Rotimi Olowo, who represented the Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa, said that the protesters were right as their action was constitutional.He emphasised that the House had commenced investigations into the government of Ambode and that they would look into the petition as a House and do their jobs as expected. The lawmaker added that they were having a committee meeting shortly before the protesters arrived to look into the finance of the state and ensure that the road in the state were motor able. In another development, the Lagos State government said that it shut down 20 health facilities in August for non-compliance with regulatory standards. Executive Secretary of Health Facility Monitoring and Accreditation Agency (HEFAMAA), Dr. Abiola Idowu, who disclosed this after a monitoring and inspection exercise by the agency yesterday, stressed that the state government remains committed to putting a halt to the ugly trend of having unqualified personnel work in health facilities and would continue to insist that the environment for the dispensation of medical care should be suitable and hygienic for the promotion and maintenance of good health. She assured the populace that the state government would not relent in its efforts to rid the state of quackery and illegal operation of facilities, adding that part of the strategies employed by the agency that made it record a level of success included consistent surveillance and monitoring of health facilities in the state, support by members of the public as well as placement of adequate sanctions against those who fail to adhere to standards. Idowu urged members of the public to continue to co-operate and support the government in its fight against quackery and illegal operation of facilities by reporting those behind such acts to relevant government agencies to safeguard the health and well-being of the citizenry. The HEFAMAA boss also said that the agency had witnessed an improved service delivery since the introduction of e-HEFAMAA, a technological-based platform to ease registration of facilities and conduct other functions.She said the agency would continue to leverage the platform with a view to improving on its mandate and broaden access to its various services by the public. “I have no doubt that the introduction of the e-platform will make the operations of HEFAMAA less cumbersome and also availing facilities and members of the public the opportunity to interface with the agency seamlessly,’’ she said.The HEFAMAA boss, who advised owners and operators of health facilities in the state to ensure they complete their registration, collect the agency’s logo and display them at a visible position in around their facilities where members of the public can see, advised members of the public to be cautious and desist from patronising uncertified healthcare providers.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .