 Amapakabo  Amapakabo, who currently handles both the U-23 and the CHAN Eagles, in a recent report published by footballlive.ng, said home-based players find it difficult to interpret tactics and formation. He also accused local coaches of lacking tactics and formation, saying they cannot give what they don’t know. Speaking to The Guardian yesterday, Musa said Amapakabo had the right to his opinion, adding, however, that the former Enugu Rangers coach also fell in the category of Nigerian coaches. “Is Amapakabo not a coach in Nigeria? Well, he is only expressing his opinion. Some players were invited to the CHAN Eagles and no player from the Kano Pillars made it to the team. And this is a club that came second in the league last season and even won the FA Cup. “Indicting the local coaches publicly is not a good thing, especially when the coach is also based in Nigeria. This is more so when others are blaming us for the current state of the national teams.”  He said Amapakabo should have been more discreet in his criticism if he noticed things wrong with the system. “If there were lapses he has noticed about the home-based players and coaches, he is supposed to advice us since he wants to correct them. Now because he lost 1-4 to Togo, he has suddenly remembered that Nigerian coaches and players lack tactics and formation,” he said. Musa, who is in Ijebu Ode, Ogun State for a pre-season tournament with his team, added that Amapakabo should complete his work against Togo and put up a course for the players and coaches on what he thinks we lack as a way forward. “It is good to hear that he knows what we don’t know. So, he should come and impact in us what tactics and formation are, as soon as he finishes the job of qualifying for the CHAN tournament. “As a way forward for the players based in Nigeria to be part of the Super Eagles, I think whoever that is given responsibility to handle the national team should start looking inwards by going round the country and seeing the players for himself rather than depending on agents,” he stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .