In the Travelbeta  Challenge, the remaining 11 housemates were grouped into 3 groups : At the end of the challenge, Team Lagos and Team New York won one million Naira each in the ongoing  Big Brother Naija Season 4. The housemates were tasked to create a commercial about traveling to the best holiday destinations and a game of dice. The first task was for each team to spell a letter from the word, “Travelbeta” by rolling the dice until it turned (6). It was in this process that Team Lagos (Mercy, Frodd and Khafi) made a successful comeback to beat the other Teams (Team New York and Team Dubai). The second task was to make an amazing commercial package for the Travelbeta brand. The housemates were required to take 2 minutes commercial for a destination package from the original commercial that was played on the TV in the lounge. Team New York won the 1 Million Naira cash prize due to their overall creativity (Ad Copy) and Professionalism. ABOUT TRAVELBETA 
Travelbeta is a well-established and professionally staffed online travel management company based in Nigeria. We aim to deliver the best travel experience to you by catering for your needs in the areas of flights, hotels, Visa Processing (Dubai visa and more) ,  airport pickups, vacation packages to all major tourist destinations in the world, corporate packages, and travel insurance. We simply provide you with result-oriented solutions to suit every lifestyle and budget. What do we aim to achieve?
We aim to help you spend less time planning your travels and more time on having the perfect holiday experience. We don’t only give you the best travel packages; we deliver them to you at the most affordable prices in the industry. Our easy-to-use online booking platform saves you time, money and stress. Why Book with Travelbeta?
We offer you the opportunity to discover, compare and book cheap flights and travel deals at your convenience. We’re true to ourselves and others, and we’re honest in our dealings. We keep to our promise and that is to give you a memorable experience. Contact Us Anytime 
Head office Address : 79 ALLEN AVENUE IKEJA, LAGOS
Email Address : info@travelbeta.com
Phone : 01 631 1375 , 07001110111
Website : www.travelbeta.com
Official blog : blog.travelbeta.com 