 Olufon of Ifon,Oba Isaac Adeusi(left); Ajobu of Araromi-Obu, Oba Aderemi Adelola; Olukare of Ikare -Akoko, ObaSaliu Momoh; Chairman, Ondo State Council of Obas and Olugbo of Ugboland, Oba Obateru Akinruntan; Olisua of Isua-Akoko, Oba Adesunloye Oyolola; Alani of Idoani,Oba Olufemi Olutoye; Olubaka of Oka-Akoko,Oba Ade Adeleye; Kalasuwe of Apoi, Oba Sunday Amuseghan; Amapetu of Mahin, Oba Oluwasegun Akinyomi; Agadagba of Arogbo, Pere Zaccheus Doubra Egbenu; Akala of Ikaram-Akoko, Oba Ade Momodu and Owa of Ogbagi- Akoko, Oba Victor Adetona at the meeting of Ondo State Council Obas in Akure, Ondo State  Speaking at the inaugural meeting of the council which he leads, Oba Akinruntan, who commended the Inspector General of Police (IGP) for coming out with the idea of community policing to end insecurity in the country, said traditional rulers should be engaged because they know their communities better. Flanked by other traditional rulers in the state, he said: “Let me first commend the IGP and President Muhammadu Buhari for doing their best to stabilise this country and ensuring safety of everybody. “If six people were to be recruited in a community, the traditional ruler in that community should screen his subjects and submit their names. He will also ensure that those he nominated perform creditably well, because it is in his interest to ensure the community is protected.” The Olugbo promised his tenure as the Chairman of the Council would be peaceful, witness development and cooperation with the State Governor, Arakunrin Rotimi Akeredolu, whom he described as a performer. Some of the first class monarchs at the meeting include, the Olufon of Ifon, Oba I.A. Adeusi; the Ajobu of Araromi-Obu, Oba Aderemi Adelola; the Olisua of Isua-Akoko, Oba A. Adesunloye Oyolola III and the Alani of Idoani, Major General (Dr) Olufemi Olutoye (Rtd). Others are, the Olubaka of Oka-Akoko, Oba (Dr) Y. A. Adeleye; the Kalasuwe of Apoi, Oba (Prof) Sunday Adejimola Amuseghan; the Amapetu of Mahin, Oba Oluwasegun Akinyomi; the Agadagba of Arogbo, Pere (Barr.) Zaccheus Doubra Egbenu; the Akala of Ikaram-Akoko,  Oba Commodore A. O. Momodu (Rtd) and the Owa of Ogbagi-Akoko, HRM Oba Victor Adetona, Odagbaragaja III. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .