 Ogun Governor-elect, Mr Dapo Abiodun  Abiodun, at the weekend, pledged that improved security and infrastructure upgrade would be among the focus of his government.He spoke at a strategic meeting with the state’s chapter of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) in Agbara, Ado-Odo-Otta Council of the state.He told the gathering, which included Group Managing Director of Flour Mills of Nigeria, Mr. Paul Gbededo: “I have known the governor-elect of Lagos, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, for a long time and we have both agreed to set up a joint development commission to enhance transformation at our borders and also to enhance the IGR of the state.” He used the medium to highlight some of the programmes that he would implement as soon as he is sworn in, which includes revival of the Ogun State Road Maintenance Agency (OGROMA) within 100 days in office, to take care of roads in the state.The governor-elect noted that his administration would ensure that all uncompleted projects by the current administration were completed. The new government, he added, would provide conducive environment for businesses to thrive by providing adequate security and “critical infrastructure”, he promised. Chairman of the state branch of MAN, who is also the managing director of Rite Foods, Mr. Saleem Adegunwa, assured that MAN would work with the government to construct Atan-Agbara carriage road. His words: “We are really excited about the presence of the governor-elect, because we believe his administration will favour us.”Adegunwa urged Abiodun to provide an enabling environment for all companies in Agbara. “It is when there is enabling environment that we can generate more funds for the government.” Gbededo called on the governor-elect to meet with the organised private sector in state to know their needs and map out a way of synergising their various efforts to achieve industrial and economic growth for the state.“We are encouraged because we see this singular act as a clear indication of your willingness to buckle down and partner with the manufacturing sector, take on the challenges of harnessing the true potential that we believe are inherent in the state.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .