 Public Relations Manager, The Yosh Foundation, Ms Ojuolape Kosoko (left); co-founder of the Foundation, Mrs Lara Fasheyitan, and Mrs Adewunmi Akinhanmi, a Volunteer and Special Needs Specialist, with some children of the home during the Foundation’s visit in Akoka, Yaba, Lagos<br />  Speaking at the donation ceremony, a board member of the Foundation, Mrs Lara Fasheyitan, the Creative Designer and CEO of Lardiva Clothings and Event, said the donation made was aimed at empowering and motivating the less privileged, especially children living with disabilities, which she noted is one of the Foundation’s drives to affect the lives of these persons in the orphanage. She explained that the Foundation, was founded by Ms Yewande Sobowale, who though is based in the UK, has a strong passion for empowering and motivating the less privileged or children living with disabilities by supporting them in the realisation of their dreams and life ambition. Fasheyitan said, “We give a spark of hope to the children through our educative seminars and skill acquisition programs. We do not believe that disability is inability, hence, do not expect any child living with any form of disability or less privileged children need to end up on the streets begging for alms.” “The Yosh Foundation believes that every child has a potential and it just needs to be discovered. So, basically we are here to help the children in the home discover their hidden talents to help you grow into independent and self-sufficient adults,” she added. According to her, the objective is to help the children fend for themselves as adults and become the best possible version of their selves. She added that plans are underway to bring in experts from various fields, from academia to professionals and tradesmen to provide insight and adequate knowledge that will help guide the future career choices of the children. “We believe in you and now want you to believe even more in yourselves. We hope to visit you regularly to monitor your progress and continue to provide support till you attain a level were you are able to decide what career you want to pursue, skill or trade you wish to learn,” Fasheyitan told the children of the home. Also speaking at the event, a key volunteer of the Foundation, Mrs Adewunmi Akinhanmi, a trained Special Needs Specialist and Coordinator with Grange School Lagos, commended the Modupe Cole Memorial Home for care given to children, saying there is need to cater for children with special needs. She called on government to create enabling environment targeted at addressing specific and individual needs of children with such need. She noted that a number parents, often time neglect and hid their children with special needs, which is sending a wrong signal and low esteem to such child or children. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .