Lai Mohammed. PHOTO: LUCY LADIDI Reps seek end to Taraba violence
The Federal Government has assured families of victims of last weekend’s attack on the Kajuru Castle Resort in Kaduna State of ensuring that the killers are prosecuted. In a statement yesterday in Abuja, Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, also assured that security agencies are doing everything possible to ensure that the three persons who were kidnapped in the attack are released unharmed. He noted that the dastardly attack that led to the death of Faye Mooney, a British aid worker and Matthew Oguche, a Nigerian, who were on a visit to the resort, was a setback to tourism in the country. “We commiserate with the families and friends of Mooney and Oguche and assure that security agencies will leave no stone unturned to apprehend the killers and bring them to justice,” he said. Lai Mohammed also pointed out that the Federal Government has recently beefed up security to curb violence and banditry in parts of the country, through better intelligence gathering and increased collaboration by security agencies. Besides, the House of Representatives yesterday urged security agencies to arrest perpetrators of the killings in Taraba State due to crisis between Tiv and Jukun nationalities with a view to prosecuting them. The House also sought thorough investigation to unravel those behind the crisis so as to proffer a permanent solution to the age-long violence between the two ethnic groups. It made the resolutions during plenary, following a motion on the need for intervention in the crisis in Wukari Local Government Area of Taraba State moved by Danjuma Shiddi (PDP, Taraba) and Emmanuel Udende (APGA, Benue). It also urged security agencies, especially the Nigerian Army to increase its presence in the affected communities until peace is restored, and urged the Benue and Taraba states governments to intensify peace efforts in the area. The House further directed the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) and the Presidential Committee on Northeast to urgently provide relief materials including food, healthcare services and roofing materials to victims of the crisis. While moving the motion, Shiddi noted that, “in recent times, Wukari Local Government Area of Taraba State has become unstable due to communal clashes between the Tiv and the Jukun. Other members of the House who spoke in favour of the motion, stressing the need to end the violence in both states are, Mohammed Abdul (APC, Bauchi), Simon Arabo (PDP, Kaduna) and Istifanus Gyang (PDP, Plateau).  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .