Kaduna State governor Nasir El-Rufai As Fresh Violence Erupts In Kaduna
Three people were feared killed and several others injured, yesterday, in a fresh crisis that rocked Kasuwan Mangani community in Kaduna State. The development forced the state government to impose a 24-hour curfew on Kajuru Local Government Area in order to forestall an escalation of crisis in the area. As of the time of filing this report, security operatives were yet to apprehend or identify perpetrators of the killings, just as the identities of the casualties were still unknown. In its reaction to the latest security threat in the state, Senior Special Assistant to Governor Nasir El-Rufai on Media and Publicity, Samuel Aruwan, said the imposition of curfew on Kajusru was to avert any further breakdown of law and order and also to prevent the crisis from spilling over to neighbouring villages in the local council. He urged citizens to comply with the curfew and also support efforts of the government and security agencies to ensure peace and stability in the community. The government had earlier beefed up security in Kajuru to avert fresh wave of killings sweeping across Kasuwan Magani from reaching Kajuru and other bordering communities. Trouble reportedly began in Kaduna Magaji on Thursday night when aggrieved youths in the area clashed and destroyed several properties, but no life was lost. The state government, in order to prevent an escalation of violence, swung into action by declaring a 24-hour curfew in Kajuru that it earlier maintained a partial curfew. A statement by Aruwan said: “Following events in Kasuwan Magani, the dusk to dawn curfew that has been in place in Kajuru LGA has been extended to 24 hours in the entire local government area. The 24-hour curfew in the entire Kajuru LGA is with immediate effect and will be enforced until further notice.” An Eyewitness in Kasua Magani, who spoke with The Guardian on the latest upheavals, said: “There was trouble here which started on Thursday night and the problem is that Christian youths were coming back from the market and some Muslim youths clashed with them. “It was a serious fight. So, one of them ran home and told his people and before you knew what was happening a lot of people came out and there was confusion. No life was lost on Thursday night but many people were injured. Security operatives came out and people ran into their houses. There were gunshots everywhere and the whole place was calm.” The eyewitness added: “This morning (Friday), some soldiers were there and were moving towards the direction of Christian populated area. Some women in the area came out and stopped them and asked where they were last night when there were gunshots and they didn’t do anything. “So, it became a drama. The next thing we heard were gunshots from the opposing end again. This caused problem but not that anybody was shot.” Meanwhile, in another statement later in the day, the state government announced the extension of the curfew imposed on Kajuru to include two committees in Chikun Local Government. The statement, which was also signed by Aruwan, was made available to newsmen in Kaduna. According to the statement, the government decided as a preventive measure to reinstate a dusk to dawn curfew in Kujama and Maraban Rido communities of Chikun Local Government Area until further notice. “This will be effective today, Friday, April 26. The curfew will be enforced from 6p.m to 6a.m daily in Kujama and Maraban Rido. The residents of these communities are advised to support and cooperate with the security agencies as they uphold peace and security,” it said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .