“Strong Ting” hitmaker, Bankole Wellington popularly known as Banky W has become one of the many Nigerians demanding for justice for Kolade Johnson who died after being struck by a stray bullet on March 31st. Many aggrieved Nigerians have taken to social media to call on the federal government to ensure that justice prevails considering that Johnson reportedly died from bullets fired by personnels of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) Johnson was at a football viewing center watching a football match when the tragedy occurred and now Banky W who recently ventured into politics is calling for justice. In a post he shared on his Instagram page this afternoon, Banky W tagged President Buhari, VP Yemi Osinbajo and Governor Ambode and called on them to ensure justice. Kolade Johnson | Photo – YouTube Read his post below, “This post is for our leaders: @muhammadubuhari @profosinbajo @akinwunmiambode,@jidesanwoolu, @aleeygiwa… Dear Sirs, Kolade Johnson, an innocent, young citizen of Nigeria is dead. He was the only son of a widow, a husband and father. His only crime was being in the right place at the wrong time… watching a football match when SARS operatives who allegedly came to arrest someone, started shooting sporadically. Kolade is not the first innocent victim of reckless behaviour by SARS operatives, and he will almost certainly not be the last. It is sickening, frustrating, and unfair. We are tired of hearing about victims of police brutality, but never hearing about the criminal, reckless police officers being brought to justice. We are tired of screaming and tweeting #ENDSARS while our innocent young people are being extorted, bullied, maimed and killed by the very same officers who are meant to protect them. And we are tired of our leaders remaining silent, incident after incident. We’re going to track down Kolade’s family, pray with them and raise money to assist them through this terrible tragedy. We hope that our leaders will use this opportunity to ACTUALLY show that they care about our lives and wellbeing, by tracking down the reckless officers responsible for this murder and bringing them to justice for their vicious crime. We will not let this go. Kolade was innocent and did not deserve to die. Kolade could have been anyone of us. Please show us that you care about us. Please. #JusticeForKolade PS: Anyone who has the contact details Kolade’s wife and/or Mom, please DM @theofficialeme_ and myself. We must take care of ourselves with or without our Government.
PPS: please repost.”