Light, camera, action. And hopefully loads of action as the newly-opened Tottenham Hotspur Stadium in London gets it’s Champions League debut. The impressive edifice will hog a bit of the limelight as Tottenham Hotspur host premier league champions Manchester City in an all-English Champions League quarter-final fixture on Tuesday night by 8:00 pm. Manchester City’s quest for a quadruple place more focuses on the fixture between Tottenham and Manchester City as they battle for who clinches the semi-final ticket after the two-legged fixture. It is also of internal supremacy and bragging rights. This is the first-ever meeting between Tottenham and Manchester City in the Champions League. But Tottenham will be going into the match with much to fight for. “We know it’s going to be very tough. Manchester City in the last few years have been building to win everything,” Tottenham manager Mauricio Pochettino said. Current premier league champions Manchester City took all six points off Tottenham in the 2017/2018 premier league season to claim the title. Still, in the race for the 2018/2019 premier league title, City with a game less is just a point behind Liverpool, who top the premier league table. Unlike Manchester City’s quest for a possible quadruple after winning the English Carabao Cup in February, Tottenham is currently fighting for a place in Uefa Champions League for next season as they sit fourth on the premier league table. Tottenham is seen as the underdogs going into the Champions League tie based on their run of form in the last seven games. Manchester City have won all seven previous matches. Tottenham have lost four of their previous seven matches, winning two and a draw. On the part of the managers, Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola has gotten the better of Tottenham manager Mauricio Pochettino in the 14 matches they have been both on the sidelines against each other. The City boss has won eight, while Pochettino has two wins with four meetings ending all square. However, the Champions League tie will present an entirely new contest between them on the European stage. Team news City forward Sergio Aguero, who has missed the last two games with a muscle injury, could feature after returning to training. Aguero has 29 goals this season, including five in the Champions League. Full-backs Kyle Walker and Benjamin Mendy should also be available. Tottenham will be without midfielder Eric Dier (hip), forward Erik Lamela (hamstring) and full-back Serge Aurier (hamstring). Forward Fernando Llorente is back in the squad after he missed out against Crystal Palace last week with concussion. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .