The Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland, Gani Adams, has told Nigeria President Muhammadu Buhari to revisit his administration’s policy programmes as the country is “bleeding”. “I want you to tell the President that Nigeria is bleeding,” Gani Adams said at the 2nd annual public lecture of Freedom Online in Lagos on Thursday. The Yoruba leader opined that the current circumstance in the country shows that many of Nigerians are suffering, living with little or no hope. “From my experience so far, I think President Buhari needs to attend to some critical issues that need urgent attention,” Adams said. Adams, who cited different examples to buttress his opinion on the state of the country, lamented at the shortage in power supply in the country. “Let me use my personal experience to buttress my point. I spend over N13,000 daily on diesel to fuel my generating set. “And that is the situation across the country. That shows the power sector is not working,” Adams said. But contrary to Adams’ claim, Nigeria’s power, works and housing minister Babatunde Fashola, said power supply in the country had improved since Buhari was elected democratic president in 2015. Fashola in October 2018 claimed that Buhari in three years as president had achieved more in power supply than the previous 16 years of the country since democratic rule. “If you compare our performance record in three years with the 16 – year record of the previous administration in the areas of Generation, Transmission and Distribution you will get the following instructive results.” “Incremental Generation of 1000MW per year against 4000MW in 16 years which amounts to 250MW per year, Transmission capacity improvement by 666MW per year against 5000MW in 16 years which amounts to 312.5MW per year and Distribution capacity improvement by 740MW per year as against 3,000MW in 16 years which amounts to 187.5MW per year,” Fashola said at the Nigeria-South Africa Chamber of Commerce (NSACC) breakfast forum in October 2018. However, Gani Adams also advised Buhari to focus on the agricultural sector to grow the country’s economy. “Another area that the president needs to work on is the agricultural sector. “The facts and figures show that we still have a long way to go if Nigeria is to be ranked among the most vibrant countries in the world. From all indices, it is no doubt that our economy needs total overhauling,” Adams said. He appealed to Buhari to find a lasting solution to security challenges in the country. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .