Holy week is the most sacred week in the Christian calendar. It is within this week that our Lord Jesus Christ accomplished his Pascal mysteries. This week is a week of sober reflection. It is a week of mutual love and reconciliation, a week when we try to reconcile with God, with one another and even with the environment. Holy week begins with Palm Sunday (Passion Sunday), which commemorates the Triumphantly Entry into Jerusalem, where He accomplished His Pascal mystery. The gospel of Luke 19:28-40 presents the story of the triumphant entry into Jerusalem thus: “As He was now approaching Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to praise God joyfully with a loud voice for all the deeds of power that they had seen, 38 saying, “Blessed is the King who comes in the name of the Lord! Peace in heaven, and glory in the highest heaven!” This is a day of praising God. Usually, there is a short procession with palm branches to mark Palm Sunday. In this joyful procession, we are praising God and we are Blessing His holy Name for His powerful deeds among His people. Child of God, as you reflect on the Lord’s goodness in your life, you will join the host of heaven in praising Him. After the procession, all the faithful will assemble inside the Temple, where the passion of our Lord Jesus Christ is narrated. Passion is derived from the Latin word passionem, which means, “suffering or enduring”. The passion of Christ begins with His triumphal entry into Jerusalem and ends with His crucifixion and death on Good Friday. It includes, among other events, the last supper, Jesus’ agony in the garden, His arrest by the Sanhedrin priests, and His trial before Pontius Pilate. The Easter Triduum is the summit of the Liturgical Year. It begins from the evening of Holy Thursday to the evening of Easter Sunday. The Triduum marks the end of the Lenten season, and leads to the Mass of the Resurrection of the Lord at the Easter Vigil. What is the essence of these celebrations? Why must we celebrate the death and resurrection of Christ over and over again? At the last Supper, which took place on Holy Thursday, our Lord Jesus Christ took bread, and after giving thanks, He broke it and gave it to His disciples, saying, “This is my body, which is given for you. Do this in remembrance of me.” This is exactly one of the reasons we celebrate the Pascal Mystery annually. We are doing it in remembrance of our Lord Jesus Christ. True lovers hardly forget themselves. They always celebrate themselves along with special moments in their lives. The Passion of Christ is the highest act of love. On Good Friday, our Lord Jesus Christ paid the price of His love for humanity. He was killed in place of the people He loved and cherished so much. No wonder He told His disciples, “No one has greater love than this, to lay down one’s life for one’s friends” (John 15:13). This is LOVE in action! By dying on the Cross Jesus proved His love for you. Since love is reciprocal, what have you done in appreciation for what Jesus has done for you? How can you express your love for Him? Jesus said, “If you love me, you will keep my commandments (John 14:15). Love of God and love of neighbour is the greatest commandment. Child of God, as you love God with your whole heart and your neighbour as yourself, it shall be well with you in Jesus name – Amen!  HAPPY HOLY WEEK!!! To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .