Besides those that produced the Professional Footballers’ Association’s team of the year, most pundits and fans struggled with Paul Pogba’s inclusion on the team. Well, Pogba enjoyed a bit of a purple patch when Ole Gunnar Solskjaer took over from Jose Mourinho as the manager of the Manchester United. But the patch doesn’t immediately make Pogba TOTY material. His form has tailed off and definitely, there are more players deserving of a spot in the team. Eden Hazard
When you say it out loud, it does sound preposterous that Hazard did not make the team of the year and (whisper it) Pogba made the team. At the middle of the season, Hazard was well in the running for the Player of the Year award but Chelsea’s inconsistency in the Premier League seriously hurt his chances. However, 16 goals and 13 assists with some of the most phenomenal performances should command a spot in the team of the year. Hazard has practically dragged Chelsea individually into the fourth spot they currently fill, bedazzling with his close control, shoulder drop and quick thinking. Son Heung Min
It does feel absurd that Son has not made the team of the year. Son has been immense in every sense, burning brightly for Tottenham Hotspur. The team riled by critics and opposition fans as a Harry Kane team has banished that opinion with Son leading the charge. Son strikes fear in the heart of the opponent with his array of skills. The Korean has scored 12 goals and contributed six assists despite starting just 21 games this season. His quick and intelligent movement into the channel, eye for goal and precise shooting makes him a deserving of a spot in the team of the year. Aaron Wan-Bissaka
The Crystal Palace right-back has been the revelation of the season. He has stunned everyone with his meteoric rise after his conversion from a left winger last season. Wan-Bissaka has made more tackles than any defender in the Premier League and is only behind Idrissa Gueye in tackles per game. Alongside his 3.8 tackles per game, Wan-Bissaka averages 2.4 interceptions per game. He is also astute going forward, bombing into space ahead of him and delivering fizzy crosses. His consistency has drawn praise from his teammates and manager. His phenomenal season has seen him linked with Arsenal, Manchester United and Manchester City. It should also have earned him a spot in the team of the year. Christian Eriksen
There are talks already that Eriksen might leave Spurs after his impressive season. The Danish midfielder who conducts the play of Tottenham has contributed 12 assists this season. Intelligently playing between the line, drifting into spaces with and without the ball and being the creative hub of Spurs and contributing seven goals, Eriksen is the livewire of the side. His consistency across the season in knitting Tottenham’s play and bailing them out with vital goals should have been reward with a team of the year spot. Pierre Emerick Aubameyang
Aubameyang has consistently found the back of the net through the season with Arsenal. Though Arsenal’s away day struggles have seen not mark a proper bid for the title, Aubameyang has scored as much as the forwards of Manchester City and Liverpool. Mohammed Salah, Sergio Aguero and Aubameyang are tied on 19 goals in the race for the Premier League’s golden boot. Aubameyang has also contributed five assists while scoring varied goals from tap ins to stunners.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .