 [FILE PHOTO] NCC Boss, Umar Garba Danbatta  Beacon of ICT Distinguished Lecture/Awards Series, widely regarded as the most prestigious annual event available in the ICT industry in Nigeria is in its tenth edition. The event will hold on Saturday, April 27, 2019 in Lagos. The Distinguished Lecture is aimed at charting the way forward for the country’s ICT sector while the award ceremony reward best practices and recognize outstanding contributions to the growth of the sector. The theme of this year’s celebration is “Telcos and Banks Partnership to Drive Financial Inclusion” and will examine efforts to empower Nigerians to boost financial growth and development. Ken Nwogbo, CEO, Communication Week Media Ltd, organisers of the BoICT Distinguished Lecture/Awards Series, said that the lecture will be delivered by Prof. Umaru Danbatta, executive vice chairman, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC). Danbatta, an exceptional public servant and one of the most sought after speakers within Nigeria and abroad will join the list of distinguished speakers at the event in the past like; Dr. Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami, director general, National Information Technology Development Agency, (NITDA); John Obaro, MD/CEO, SystemSpecs Ltd; and Femi Adeoti, managing director/CEO, Africa Operations of Inlaks. Nwogbo, also said that the event will be chaired by Engr. Gbenga Adebayo, chairman, Association of Licensed Telecom Operators of Nigeria (ALTON), an industry association for all Telecommunications Operators in Nigeria. Adebayo, described as ‘Telecom Wizard’ by City People Magazine is also chairman and group chief executive officer, Communication Network Support Services Limited and CNSSL Contact Centre Limited, a leading business process outsource company in telecom network engineering and contact centre operations across Nigeria.He is also president and founder of African Broadband Limited, owners of Royal FM, Royal Television Service and Royal Times of Nigeria Newspapers.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .