Darasimi in a University Teaching Hospital (UCH) facility in Ibadan, Oyo State, Nigeria An 18-month girl named Darasimi Chinda with a septal defect is seeking the help of well-meaning individuals to fund a surgical operation in India. Darasimi has been under intensive care at the University College Hospital (UCH) Ibadan, Oyo State since December 2017. UCH’s consultant paediatric cardiologist Oluwatoyin Ogunkunle, in a letter ostensibly written to help the patients’ parent seek financial, said Darasimi’s health challenge was discovered when she was six months old. “Clinical examinations revealed features in keeping with Drown Syndrome,” Ogunkunle said. “Subsequent investigations including echocardiography confirmed a diagnosis of subclinical hypothyroidism and complete atrioventricular septal defect (a congenital heart disease) and moderate pulmonary hypertension.” Darasimi’s father Augustine Chinda said his daughter has been experiencing difficulties in sitting and had not walked since birth as a result of the illness. “We were told that the hole in her heart will not allow other parts of her body function properly. Doctors said her development will be very slow if the surgery is not done.” “I appeal to everyone to please to come to our help and help her (Darasimi) live a good life,” Chinda said. An atrioventricular septal defect (AVSD) is a heart defect in which there are holes between the chambers of the right and left sides of the heart, and the valves that control the flow of blood between these chambers may not be formed correctly, United States’ Centre for Disease Control and Prevention said on its website. “In AVSD, blood flows where it normally should not go. The blood may also have a lower than normal amount of oxygen, and extra blood can flow to the lungs. “This extra blood being pumped into the lungs forces the heart and lungs to work hard and may lead to congestive heart failure.” The cardiologist disclosed that since the discoveries, Darasimi has been placed on drug treatment at the Paediatric Cardiology Clinic in UCH, where she was treated with oral frusemide, spironolactone, captopril and sildenafil. She has been admitted twice since the diagnosis was made and requires open-heart surgery for total correction of the cardiac defect for her to live healthier and longer. Currently, the facilities for the medical service she needs are not available in Nigeria, Ogunkunle said. Her ailment requires medical services available in India which costs between N3.5 million to N5 million. Well-meaning persons can support Darasimi’s quest for a healthier and longer life by donating via this First Bank account- Augustine Bamidele Chinda 3087522171 or Access Bank- Ojo Damilola Olabisi 0027288720.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .