 Igbinedion University, Okada, Edo State  He stated this at the official unveiling and launch of the Centre in Okada, Edo State, adding that the centre aims to be a world-class citadel of excellence on emerging security challenges. Ezemonye specifically challenged the Guest Lecturer and Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt. General Tukur Buratai, who delivered a lecture on Military and Democracy Consolidation in Nigeria: Appraisal of Nigerian Army Counter-Terrorism and Counter Insurgency Operations. He said the university’s Senate unanimously approved that proposal for the establishment of the centre on January 17, 2017, which signaled the dawn of an avant-garde centre. He pointed out that the centre was aimed at enhancing research and knowledge, as well as actively share acquired knowledge through continuous professional commissioned trainings for military personnel security agencies, intelligence organisations and members of the public. Ezemonye added that when the centre becomes fully operational it would be at the forefront of cutting edge researches that interrogate emerging security challenges of local and global concern. He said researches conducted would be based on interrogating emerging security challenges of local and global concern ranging from conflicts to terrorism and insurgency, proliferation of small arms, sea piracy, war, international relations, human trafficking, cybercrimes, desert encroachment, global warming, famine and ethnic nationalism, among others. The Vice Chancellor who highlighted the benefits of the centre to national security said, “Our strategy is to create a faculty that provides knowledge based interventions for effective enforcement response, being a rich blend of academic researchers in security affairs and practitioners from military and other agencies. “This is with the overall goal of boosting capacity building to confront and effectively deal with security challenges that are novel and asymmetric in nature. “In this regard, the centre will sign memorandum of understandings (MoUs) with select centres of excellence with global visibility in North America, Europe, Asia, the Middle East, Latin America and Africa to enhance its capabilities through exposure to global best practices.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .