Benola Cerebral Palsy Initiative, led by its Managing Director, AVM Femi Gbadebo (rtd) has received 22 wheelchairs, each costing between N85,000 and N100,000 to help facilitate movement for the victims of cerebral palsy. The District Governor, Rotary International, District 9110, Kola Shodipo, donated the wheelchairs in partnership with Rotary Club of Victoria Garden City, Rotary Club of Ikoyi Metropolitan and Rotary Club of Accra East, District 9102, Ghana. Sodipo said they embarked on the project to assist cerebral palsy patients to enable them move around. He said it is good to do good, especially to people who find themselves in difficult situations. He appealed to other clubs in the district to key into similar idea with a view to providing more chairs and helping more victims. Gbadebo described the gesture as “a wonderful thing.” He said it was part of the vision of the group to take care of children and adults living with cerebral palsy and assist their parents on how to manage them. He urged drugs manufacturers, corporate firms and the government to give those living with it due assistance. He said over 650,000 Nigerians live with cerebral palsy and that the wheelchairs were a drop in an ocean. At the moment, about 500 patients were on the queue, he said. However, with the advice of medics, they would be offered to those in need. Speaker at my installation, later made an appeal to be provided with wheel chairs and we bought into the idea and today, District 9110, two clubs from Nigeria and one club of District 9102, Ghana, joined our resources together to make this first batch happen as our goal is to provide 1,000” he said. He noted that the wheel chairs were in their different categories, adding that some of them were strong enough to be used by spinner cord injuries victims among others as he prayed that God would identity with the victims and make them whole.
Gbadebo said the chairs would be distributed by Specialists in Physiotherapy during Cerebral Palsy Forum in August at Luth according to the state of beneficiaries as he called on Organisations to donate more, directly to the Initiative. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .