Stakeholders in the housing sector would gather in New York, United States of America for the second phase of the real estate investment and mortgage finance in Nigeria conference, which holds next month. The confab is an initiative of Housing Circuit Limited in conjunction with the Consulate of Nigeria in the New York. The theme of the confab is, ‘social housing, real estate investment and mortgage finance’. To lead speakers at the event is the Executive Secretary of the Federal Government Staff Housing Loans Board, Dr. Hannatu Fika who for years has been at the forefront of transformation and affordable housing, especially for federal public servants drawn from across board. Other speakers expected are, President of Real Estate Developers Association of Nigeria (REDAN), Ugochukwu Chime; President of Mortgage Banking Association of Nigeria (MBAN) Mr. Niyi Akinlusi; Managing Director, Nigeria Mortgage Refinance Company (NMRC) Mr. Kehinde Ogundimu, Managing Director,  of Family Homes Funds, Mr. Femi Adewole; Managing Director, Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC), Alhaji Umaru Ibrahim while international housing finance executive consultant, Adenike Fasanya-Osilaja will be the specialist moderator. State governments are also expected to make presentations on housing and mortgage imperatives in their respective states.Speaking to newsmen on the programme of activities, the Managing Director, Housing Circuit Limited, Mr. Seun Jegede said, “There would be series of key note addresses, break-out sessions and networking, seminars all with a mandate to empower Delegates and Participants. “The first day of the programme, is basically the opening day of the event and it is meant for opening speeches by the Special Guests of Honour, welcome addresses and welcome dinner. The next day would be for plenary characterised by lot of paper presentations, breakout sessions, networking and exhibition.There would also be state governments presentations”. According to the Consulate General of Nigeria, Nicholas Ella, the Consulate, would help in securing the hall for the event, general planning and mobilization of Nigerian professionals organizations and other interested participants to attend the event.In a pre-conference statement, Dr. Fika said the occassion opens a window to restate the support of president Muhammadu Buhari to effective housing delivery in Nigeria, especially among Federal public servants.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .