The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan is a popular historic destination for many tourists who are visiting Western Asia. Here are some places that you must not fail to visit: Petra: This ancient city is a sight to behold because it was carved out of red sandstone rocks. It also takes the name of Rose City because of the colour of the stone from which it is carved. The resting place of Aaron, brother of Moses, Petra was previously known as Raqmu. It is said that the early settlers first arrived in 9,000 BC. A once glorious city for the wealthy, a lot of its structures were destroyed because of an earthquake. One of its most visited sites in Petra is one of the new 7 wonders of the world, Al Khazneh, a temple which is believed to contain riches. Petra | Photo by YouTube Wadi Rum: Thinking of where to go desert camping? Wadi Rum, known as the Roman Valley or the Valley of Moon, is famed for its graffiti and paintings on its rock formations. It is a favourite of sci-fi directors who hope to find a representation of the planet Mars. Tourists who are looking to hike and rock-climb will find this place even more entertaining. For those who do not fancy climbing the mountains, a horse or camel safari will serve a good and useful purpose. Carving of Lawrence of Arabia in Wadi Rum Desert | Photo – Video Blocks Jerash: If you are a lover of Greek and Roman mythology, then this is for you. Here the Semitics lived until the 746 Galilee earthquake destroyed a large part of the city. Another earthquake (847 Damascus earthquake) eventually destroyed what was left. What is more? Here was the location of the Temple of Artemis which was destroyed in 1121. Until the 16th century, it was deserted by humans. Fortunately, you can still see ruins and a trip to Jerash will expose you to the pottery of their times and the Mamluk structures. Madaba Madaba is mentioned in the Holy Bible in Numbers and Joshua. A popular site of ancient discovery, it is known as the City of Mosaics. This is because of the large mass of mosaics that have been discovered since 1896. Tourists should also keep a date at the Greek Orthodox Basilica of Saint George also known as the “Church of the Map”. This map shows 6th-century landmarks, the church of the Holy Sepulchre and the “representation of Byzantine Jerusalem, the Holy City” before its destruction. Another place of interest is the 3,000-year-old Iron Age temple containing figurines of ancient Moabite deities and clay vessels. Mount Nebo What is not to love about Mount Nebo? For Christians, it holds an important place in their lives. It is where Moses was granted his last view of the Promised Land. It is also here that prophet Jeremiah hid the Ark of the Covenant and the tabernacle. Here also lies the location of a sculptured brazen serpent which takes after the serpent that Moses created for the Israelites. Tourists will be delighted to find a monastery, and a church established in the 4th century to commemorate the death of Moses. Dead Sea So-called because there is little or no aquatic animal in the water due to its composition. It is one of the world’s saltiest water bodies. Biblical records state that some of the cities close to the Dead Sea were destroyed when Lot was escaping the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah. The city of Zoar where he eventually settled was also close to this Sea. King David also hid in a cave close to the Dead sea during his escape from King Saul. Beauty enthusiasts will find the Dead Sea composition useful. This is because its properties including its mud are considered to relieve pain in medical patients suffering from osteoarthritis of the knee. It is here you will also find the asphalt used by EYPTIANS in the embalming process for their mummies. Dead Sea | Photo by Lonely Planet