 Iron rod building materials  He flayed the situation in which most material components for building projects are imported into the country, lamenting that the development has triggered increasing cost of construction. Speaking on the proposed building material exhibition entitled, “Value engineering in building and construction, the role of technology” is to be organized in Lagos, he said the forum will explore potentials of technology in giving lots of alternatives to the type of building materials to adopt for construction in the absence of preferred materials. According to him, over 50 international and local exhibitors are to showcase latest inventions in building materials technology at the 4th edition of the exhibition, which holds in June 2019, at the Landmark event centre. “We have are promoting quality building materials and manufacturers. Building exhibitors are expected from, Turkey, Switzerland, Spain, Italy, Germany, Egypt and Morocco. This year, we have about four events in Nigeria, which include, the building and construction exhibition collocated with ceramics, tiles and kitchen wares, heating ventilation and air/refrigeration expo and others, he said. He said the initiative is supported by the Nigerians Institute of Civil Engineers, Association of Consulting Engineers of Nigeria, Association of Professional Women Engineers of Nigeria, the Council for Regulation of Engineering in Nigeria, the Nigerian Society of Engineers and Nigerian Institute of Structural Engineers while international speakers are also expected from Turkey and South Africa. Chime lamented low awareness of building exhibitions in Nigeria stressing the need for stakeholders to encourage companies to see the benefits of participating in exhibitions as a veritable avenue for exposing housing products and promoting opportunity to inter-face with customers as well as get feedback about products. “Companies should look out for such opportunities, it should not just about revenue generation but the exposure is more important. If you attend exhibitions in other countries, you would see latest technology in building materials and with that, people with skills would be encouraged to look at options and opportunities that could grow the economy. If there has been alternative provision in building materials, we will hardly have issues of building collapse because when there are no available good materials, people tend to resort to the cheaper products, which might not give them the actual value needed. We are bringing the very best in the industry as well as aimed to promote knowledge transfer, culture and information”, he said. He stated that with the right building materials in the sector and certified professionals who are constantly trained through seminars and workshops as well as adhered to ethical procedures, the malaise of building collapse would end. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .