 Child education  The Commissioner who was represented by the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry, Dr. Perpetua Agi, commended Promasidor Nigeria Limited for its commitment to the career growth of Nigerian youth through the project, saying, the concept of the programme is to equip students with the skills they need to pursue careers that will enable them become leaders of tomorrow. “It is a very important programme and also timely now that we have children who graduate from school and stay for years without employment. This guidance will help our children to pick careers that they can handle and also enable them contribute to the growth of the society. It would also enable them meet with employers of labour so that we don’t just produce children who come out to look for jobs. “We like what Promasidor is doing and we call on individuals and the private sector to join hands and organise things like this. Don’t leave this to government alone because it is massive, let us all come together and address the challenges of education.”
The Commissioner encouraged the students to take the programme seriously and not allow the efforts of Promasidor to be in vain. His words,  “You have been taught that you have to follow that career for which you have passion, and which comes to you naturally. If you look around, job places are becoming fewer and fewer. You therefore must aim at being entrepreneurs and not dependent on white collar jobs alone. The Principal, West African People’s Institution (WAPI) which hosted the event, Mrs Mercy Etim also expressed gratitude to Promasidor for considering her school and students worthy of the programme. She said the participants were lucky because they now know what they needed to do to become successful professionals and entrepreneurs. Promasidor’s Head of Legal and Corporate Communications, Mr Andrew Enahoro said the programme has helped students to make proper career choices that relates to their talents, attitude and dreams in their educational pursuits. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .