Nigeria Immigration Service has commenced issuance of the new international passport with ten-year validity. NIS Public Relations Officer, Sunday James, said the new booklet was part of a comprehensive passport reform approved by the Federal Government to improve the quality and security against damage, counterfeit, and forgery for Nigeria citizens. He said new booklet will be available in Ikoyi on Monday, June 3 Alausa, Lagos on July 8 and London on July 29, 2019. James had in January urged Nigerians to take advantage of the features of the 10-year validity passport which includes self-tracking of application and express centres for urgent application. Other advantages he said included weather friendliness, compliance with the latest ICAO standard, polycarbonate technology that reduces the incidence of damage. It also saves Nigerians in the Diaspora time of frequent visits to Nigerian Embassies. The NIS spokesman, however, explained that the National Identity Number (NIN) is a compulsory requirement for passport applicants. “To make it easy for applicants, the Nigeria Immigration Service has provided space for National Identity Management Commission at the service headquarters, Abuja, to register applicants and issue to them the NIN. He advised Nigerians “not to rush for the new booklet, as the new enhanced passport will run concurrently with the old one.” The NIS spokesman further said that applicants holding a passport with more than six months’ validity are not eligible for the new booklet, except in the case of damage, change of data and those whose booklets have been exhausted. James advised applicants to pay online or directly to the banks situated within the passport offices. He urged interested applicants not to patronise touts, “as all the service windows are equipped to meet their needs.” He added that the Comptroller-General of Immigration Service, Muhammad Babandede, had directed passport offices at the state commands to continue to issue the old booklet, while the service headquarters in Abuja would only issue the new passport booklet. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .