itel P33 . PHOTO: PC Tech Magazine Itel Mobile has launched its max power series-P33, P33 model- with advanced Artificial Intelligence (AI) power master technology. According to Itel, “The itel P33 is a pivotal landmark in itel’s P-series lineup, as it is the first itel smartphone to debut with a 16GB ROM and supports an expandable microSD card up to 3268. “The power series are affordable and have long-lasting battery designed to last 80 hours on a single charge. The Itel P33 has a 4000mAh battery with a futuristic Al power master, while P33 Plus comes with 5000mAh big battery hours normal usage. The AI technology in the P3 series makes the device smarter and helps control its power consumption without affecting usage. Compared to the P32, the new series has expanded its ROM from 8GB to 16GB. The P33 has more than 12GB free space for users to keep photos, videos and install more apps, using the optimised AndroidTM OreoTM (Go edition) operating system with its light pre-installed apps. Marketing Communications Manager, Itel Mobile, Oke Umurhohwo, at the launch said: “Itel Mobile is reiterating its commitment to providing affordable smartphones that offers more value with cutting-edge technology, features, and style. The itel P33 is extending the reputation of an exceptional value proposition, and we are confident, this device will not just raise the bar but will satisfy our consumer’s need of a long-lasting battery to the fullest.” On security, the itel P33 and P33 Plus has face unlock and fingerprint sensor functions. Both P33 and P33 Plus equipped with a dual rear camera for capturing clearer photos, also the portrait mode allows users to take an artistic portrait with bokeh effects. The customised feature – Face Beauty V2.0, which is created for the chocolate skin color, makes user’s face looks slimmer, ruddy and smooth in real-time. To create a unique user experience, itel has integrated the P33 to be more innovative with a unique customized interface of UI 3.0, 5.5” HD+ lPS FullScreen, 8MP dual rear camera, new trendy color (blue). For P33 Plus, it comes with 6.0” lPS FullScreen display and a fashionable gradation blue color. The technology breakthrough in itel P33 series shows its continued advancement towards being among the top three mobile brands globally and thus, a significant progress for the brand.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .