Chairman, Mind Builders Educational Trust Council, Mr. Bosun Falore, presenting the trophy to a representative of the victorious Diamond House at the 2019 Mind Builders School Inter-house Competition, which took place at Agege Stadium, Lagos Diamond House has won this year’s Mind Builders School’s inter-house sports competition, beating Peridot House and Citrine House to second and third positions respectively. The competition had board members, parents, and students of the school and sports enthusiasts cheering the athletes as they vied for honours in the kids, junior and senior categories. The school’s eighth biennial competition with the theme: ‘Sport in Education’, was held at Agege Stadium, Agege, Lagos. The event witnessed excited pupils and students from preschool to college levels contest in various sporting activities. The competition featured track events such as the sprint races (50, 100, 200, and 4x100m relay), invited schools’ relay, march past and choreography by the four houses, and tunnel and hoop/treasure/hoop and ball/bakers/big fish and 25 metres races for pre-school children. Members of staff and invited guests were not left out as they participated in staff race, mothers’ race, fathers’ race, and executive race for invited private school proprietors. There were also invited schools’ relays with winners smiling home with gifts. Diamond House emerged the overall winner by topping the medals table with 24 medals, comprising 16 gold, five silver and three bronze medals, beating Peridot to second place with seven gold, nine silver and 11 bronze medals.  Citrine House secured the third position with five gold, 11 silver and nine bronze medals, while Lapis (Blue) came fourth with three gold, six silver and four bronze medals. Speaking at the event, the school’s Education Director, Mrs. Bolajoko Falore described sport as a powerful tool that helps people feel good physically and mentally. She said the theme emphasised the importance of sport in the healthy improvement of children, young people and national development. Mrs. Falore added: “Sport is quite beneficial for children… it develops their physical skills, they make new friends, have fun, learn to be a team member, fair play and improve their self self-esteem. “No other things in life can give children opportunity to develop positive character traits and to soar up many quality as sport does.” She said the school believed in developing a total child through total education and exposing them to physical training through competitive exercise as one of the ways of building them up.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .