Mrs Nike Adeyemi and Toyin Poju-Oyemade with guests at the event The founder of Real Woman Foundation, Mrs Nike Adeyemi, has urged women not to segregate themselves in the affairs of the country, but contribute their quota to move the nation forward. Adeyemi, who is also the deputy Senior Pastor at Daystar Christian Centre, spoke at the Women of Destiny Conference, tagged: “Let Your Light Shine,” which held recently at the Church’s headquarters in Oregun, Lagos. According to her, God created both the man and woman to be light of the world, therefore, they both have what it takes to tackle the many challenges confronting the country. She said: “When you shine, you give others foundation to shine. Meditating on the word of God will sustain the shining. There is hope for that dream as long as you are alive. Be the light that you are, get better and renew your mind “Let your light shine before men, so being light means you should influence for good…in your communities, in our neighbourhood, in your offices. Wherever you are, just shine your light. So whatever you see you can do about Nigeria; whenever you see things are not working, you can do anything about it by all means, shine your light. That what we are talking about, don’t just sit and ignore. Do whatever you can. “We all shine at different intensity. If you are going for a political office, if you are running for governor, that’s a big portfolio and that’s a way to shine your light. But you can also shine your light in the market place with the market women. Just wherever you are.” On her part, Founder, Storyteller NG, Toyin Poju-Oyemade, urged women to step up being who they are and work in their purpose. “We are not here to live for ourselves, we are here to be blessings for others. My advice to men is to let their wives soar; let them shine. The shining of your wife does not diminish you, instead, there is no man that wouldn’t want to hear, ‘oh your wife is amazing’ and you feel somehow. “You don’t need to project women when they stand up to their roles. There are three women that are chairmen of banks in Nigeria, they didn’t need to project themselves, they just took their place, running their business and they are at the top.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .