 Rev. Theodore Effiong  When Solomon dedicated the temple, he provoked Heaven by offering a sacrifice that was unprecedented. As a result, he successfully brought God’s Hand upon that temple, so much so that God’s glory filled the house. Men of God couldn’t stand because they were slain under the power of God. Beyond that, in the night, God appeared unto Solomon the second time. “And said unto him, I have heard thy prayer, and have chosen this place to myself for an house of sacrifice. Now my eyes shall be open, and mine ears attend unto the prayer that is made in this place. FOR NOW, I have chosen and sanctified this house, that my name may be there forever and mine eyes and mine heart shall be there perpetually.” 2 Chron. 7:12&15-16 After Moses dedicated the tabernacle in Numbers 7:88, the next verse says, “THEN he heard the voice of one speaking unto him from off the mercy seat.” After Solomon sacrificed heavily in the dedication, the Lord said: “NOW I have chosen this house”. When Moses sacrificed heavily in the dedication of the tabernacle, the next thing we see is, THEN God showed up inside the tabernacle speaking to him audibly from off the mercy seat. Hannah made a vow unto the Lord. She bargained to surrender her child to God as a Nazarite all the days of his life, if the Lord would but give her one male child. That is the full extent of her transaction before God. However, on the day of dedication, she went far beyond the required law in Leviticus 12:6-8. It states that the poor were to present one bird for dedication, but the rich were required to give a goat. Hannah presented 3 bullocks – one as a sin offering and two for Samuel’s dedication. 1 Samuel 1:24 Aside the fact that God opened her womb severally thereafter, as for Samuel, God’s Hand came upon him. 1Samuel 3:4, 19-21. Hannah did not just give the minimum requirement, but provoked the heavens with an uncommon dedication sacrifice and God’s Hand came mightily upon the dedicated child. Most people turn dedication into celebration and end up merely provoking the physical realm and not the spiritual realm. They provoke jealousy and envy. They provoke witches and wizards to rise up. If in the name of dedication of your house, marriage, children, car etc, you print invitation cards and invite all and sundry and use that opportunity to display your latest achievement and showcase your latest addition, you do not understand the purpose of dedication. Dedication is not celebration. Neither is it an avenue for raising funds. Any dedication during which you collected from the altar more than what you put into it is no sacrifice. If your dedication sacrifice does not affect you, how do you expect it to affect God? And how do you expect God’s Hand to come upon the very thing you are dedicating? If you dedicate your car and money is raised for the fueling of that car, you have broken the law of dedication, which is all about giving to God and not getting. Unfortunately, many men of God want to be more righteous than God by raising money after child dedication for his/her benefit. The same thing occurs during marriage. Money is raised to help the couple. This is very nice. However, it ought not to be done at the time of dedication. Dedication must go with sacrifice. Those of you who turn the day of dedication of musical CDs and books into fund raising and launching should beware. You might make your money, but that book or cassette will end up as a local item. The hand of God to take that CD or book around the world will not be there. The worst thing about dedication is that, you normally have only one day to hit the nail on the head. If you miss it, you may likely end up paying for it for the rest of your life. Get wise. What is worth doing is worth doing well. Most of the top worldly musicians and film producers cannot tell you how much they’ve sacrificed for their music albums and films to be a hit. The kingdom of darkness understands the principle of dedication far more than Christians, who erroneously believe everything is free in Christ Jesus. Most of the worldly business tycoons and multimillion-dollar companies sacrifice a lot. The world and all the activities under heaven should be seen as a market place open to the highest bidder. Great sacrifices earn great prizes. Meagre sacrifices fetch defeat and measly portions. Till tomorrow, Abel’s sacrifice in comparison to that of Cain’s separates them into two classes.
Rev. Theodore Effiong, Assemblies of God Church, Calabar or Prayer To All Nations (PTAN),
Prayer City, Calabar. CRS
Email: theoeffiong@yahoo.com
Phone – +234 9030012007, +234 7031921770  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .