 Lagos Commissioner for Health, Dr. Jide Idris  Idris who has represented by Head, Project Unit, Lagos Ministry of health, Dr. Oduole Olusoga, said the purpose of the facility is for mother, child and newborn in line with United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) to ensure no regnant woman ill die at childbirth. According to the commissioner, what the present government has done is to put all efforts to make sure that projects like this is possible.“The government has invested a huge sum of money in making this facility; you cannot quantify money with life. A lot of commitment has come from government in making this functional. The government also, graciously approved the intake of medical personnel across the board. The staff to work here is already integrated in so many aspect of the hospital. Adequate personnel have been employed,” he said. The commissioner noted that the facility is hat like hat is obtainable in the developed world, citing that the Lagos state health insurance scheme will address the issue of funding in healthcare.Chief Medical Director, LASUTH, Prof. Adetokunbo Fabamo said the hospital no has what is called a super ultra modern hospital for women in Lagos. “The facility is a site to behold. You can only compare facility here with what you can see in the developed world. There is no private hospital in Lagos can match it. It is totally out of this world. Women in Lagos are very in for a fantastic time.“The government has been gracious, they have recruited personnel to populate this edifice and after commissioning they are going full blast,” he added. Similarly, Operational Coordinator for the Project, Dr. Sylvester Odigie, said the newborn was incorporated primarily to deliver quality and more standard care to mother, child and newborn.He added: “Originally this hospital facility is 80bed; the state government has expanded it and renovated it to 170bed capacity and to cater for the need of mother child and newborn and of new born with special challenge. “Those ones that require artificial ventilation this facility is equipped with 30 incubators all with oxygen delivery system. There is also special space for challenged new born babies requiring intensive care; we have 5spaces for such patients.” Odigie continued: “I must mention to the glory of God that this facility especially the one from Intensive Care Unit (ICU) has the capacity to deliver and support organ failures. There are organ support capabilities in this hospital. We also have 16 beds of very hard dependency unit that incorporates a theatre to attend to emergency cases especially with women with threatened abortions and forensic implications. This hospital, though general in nature but it is designed to deliver tertiary healthcare.” Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, Lagos State, Ade Akinsanya said Lagos state has done it again. “We have facility that will carter for the need of women children and new born. The equipment in the old building is obsolete, this is the state of the art equipment and it is what is obtainable in developed nations,” Akinsanya said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .