 NCC Building.<br />Photo/NgComCommission  Danbatta will be speaking on the theme “Telcos and Banks Partnership to Drive Financial Inclusion” and will examine efforts to empower Nigerians to boost growth and development. This year’s Beacon of ICT Distinguished Lecture/Awards Series is slated for Saturday, April 27, 2019, at the prestigious Eko Hotels and Suites, Lagos. Beacon of ICT Distinguished Awards Series widely regarded as the most prestigious annual event available in the ICT industry in Nigeria is in its tenth edition. The Distinguished Lecture is aimed at charting the way forward for the country’s ICT sector while the award ceremony reward best practices and recognize outstanding contributions to the growth of the sector. According to Ken Nwogbo, CEO, Communication Week Media Ltd, organisers of the BoICT Distinguished Lecture/Awards Series, “the choice of Danbattai, EVC of NCC is deliberate because he is a distinguished public servant. Prior to his appointment, Prof. Danbatta, served as a member of the Implementation Committee of the Northwest University Kano, served as the Acting Vice-Chancellor of the Kano University of Science & Technology, Wudil. Past speakers include: Dr. Ernest Ndukwe, then executive vice chairman, Nigeria Communications Commission (NCC); Engr. Yomi Bolarinwa, former Director-General of National Broadcasting Commission (NBC); Dr. Jean Luc Fort, CEO at OR System France and a specialist in Counterparty Risk; and Professor Chris Nwagboso, Chairman, Knowledge Factory International, United Kingdom. Others are: Uche Orji, managing director/chief executive officer, Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA); Biodu Omoniyi, Managing Director/CEO, VDT Communications; Ayotunde Coker, Managing Director, Rack Centre Limited; and Peter Adedayo Arogundade, managing director and chief executive officer, Sidmach Technologies Nigeria Limited The events draw top politicians and government functionaries as well captains in the ICT industry as well financial institutions. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .