Liverpool forward, Mohammed Salah, is part of the stars to feature on the six covers of TIME magazines 100 most influential people. Other influential people on the covers include Dwayne Johnson, Taylor Swift, Sandra Oh, Gayle King and Nancy Pelosi. Salah, 26, is one of the sports stars that made the top 100 influential people. Others include South African athlete Caster Semanya, golfer Tiger Woods, LA Lakers basketballer Lebron James, Grand slam winner Naomi Osaka, USA footballer Alex Morgan. In his interview with TIME magazine, Salah spoke on the importance of gender equality. “I think we need to change the way we treat women in our culture,” Salah said. “It’s not optional. “I support the woman more than I did before, because I feel like she deserves more than what they give her now, at the moment.” Comedian John Oliver, an avid Liverpool fan and the host of HBO’s Last Week Tonight With John Oliver, wrote about Salah in the TIME magazine. “Mo Salah is a better human being than he is a football player. And he’s one of the best football players in the world,” Oliver wrote. “You’d be hard-pressed to find a professional athlete in any sport less affected by their success or status than Mo, which is incredible because I can’t imagine the kind of pressure that comes with the intensity of adoration he receives. “Mo is an iconic figure for Egyptians, Scousers and Muslims the world over, and yet he always comes across as a humble, thoughtful, funny man who isn’t taking any of this too seriously. “As a footballer, he plays with an infectious joy. I’ve always wondered what it would feel like to be able to play as well as him, and watching his face light up after he does something incredible, you get the reassuring sense that it’s exactly as fun as you’d want it to be. I absolutely love him.”  Salah hit the ground running at Liverpool after his move from Roma in 2017. He beat expectations in his first season, scoring 44 goals for Liverpool. He won the Premier League golden boot, PFA and African player of the year awards. This season, he is the Premier League’s joint top scorer with 19 goals. Salah and Liverpool are in a tight race with Manchester City for the Premier League. The Egyptian scored in Liverpool’s second leg win over Porto to qualify for the semi-final of the Champions League. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .