 OPIC Managing Director, Mr. Babajide Odusolu  The first phase is situated on a 789 square meters and made up of 25 blocks of 150 units of three bedrooms and 36 units two bedrooms.According to the officials, the estate was developed to complement the Makun City, the pilot phase; Family Homes Fund housing project located the same axis built as high and low medium homes The MTR Gardens is made up of 32 three bedrooms with two boys quarters each fully fitted with air conditioners and 24 two bedrooms.Described as exquisite affordable offering within the neigbourhood, a unit of three bedrooms fully finished with fitted kitchen and air-conditioners goes for N32 million while its completed shell goes for N24 million. The two bedrooms, standard finishes goes for N18.5 million, while its completed shell goes for N14 million. It also offers a wide range of facilities, including a multi purpose gym, basket ball court, swimming pool, club and lounge, neighhood supermarket, 24 hours power supply, integrated security networks, artesian water, integrated sewage solution and broadband internet services.There is also a flexible payment plans with 50 per cent down payment, and the rest spread across 12 months with a mortgages provided by Gateway Mortgage Bank, Home Base and Trusbond Mortgage banks. Speaking on the project, the Managing Director, Ogun State Property Investment Company (OPIC), Babajide Odusolu, said the MTR Gardens was developed to ensure that many businesses owners live and work in Ogun. To boost the property value in the axis, the state, he said, are in the process of completing a 1.5 kilometre road in the area with a plan to bring in one megawatt Independent Power Plant (IPP) before the end of the year to compliment the power supply in the estate. Odusolu also said, the state would soon commence the commercial segment in its second phase with the building of a world-class city mall, with offices and hotel in order to recreate the quality of life in the axis. Meanwhile, the State’s Director, Planning, Research and Statistics, Ogun State Ministry of Housing, Sulaimon Oladipo, an architect, has called for the formulation of maintenance policy and the inclusion of maintenance culture in the country’s educational curriculum. Oladipo who delivered a lecture on  ‘’Maintenance Culture in the Protection of Government Properties’’ at a training programme organised by the State’s Civil Service Commission in Abeokuta, urged Nigerians to embrace good maintenance culture. In a statement signed by the Press Officer, Ministry of Housing, Olawale Osunbiyi, he said the influx of quacks in the Nigeria housing sector, has been identified as the major cause of building collapse in the country. According to him, loss of lives and properties usually associated with building collapse would have been avoided, if professionals were engaged. The Director, who is also the Chairman, Nigerian Institute of Architects, Ogun State Chapter, added that other key factors responsible for building collapse included, use of substandard building materials and poor maintenance culture. Earlier, the Acting Chairman, Ogun State Civil Service Commission, Alhaji Surajudeen Olusesi, said the need for a renaissance in maintenance culture among members of the public towards government property, prompted the commission to organise the training.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .