 Globacom service center. Photo/Nairametrics  Bovi Man on Fire, as the show was tagged, was organised by Messer Brownhill Event Limited, and had Globacom as the Exclusive Telco Sponsor. The highly sought after show drew participation from revered personalities of Warri origins, including the Prime Minister of Warri Kingdom, High Chief Ayiri Emami, the president of the Nigerian Football Federation (NFF), Mr. Amaju Pinick, Globacom’s number one trade partner in the Mid-West Region, Mr. Hanson Okuoimase and his wife, Mrs. Hope Hanson. Globacom’s customers were given royal treatment at the event as they were given vantage positions and waited upon hand and foot by specialised hosts and hostesses. One of Globacom’s premium customers who received the royal treatment, Engineer Philip Oghenetega, lauded Globacom for ushering him into the Easter mood in a grand style. “Beyond the laughter here and the fun, I think, we should personally acknowledge Globacom for its efforts at always going out of its ways to delight its customers and make them always number one in everything. I have been to shows and I can appreciate the value of the free ticket Globacom gave to me to be part of this Bovi Man on Fire show, the first in Warri”, Oghenetega said. Another beneficiary of the VIP treatment, Mr. Stanley Omatseyione, said one of the reasons he loved Globacom was because the company always had the interest of its customers and business partners at heart. ‘I had planned to come for the show on my own and I was greatly relieved when Globacom sent the free ticket to me. This is very encouraging and it gladdens one’s heart to note that a company as big as Globacom recognises one’s modest contribution to its growth”, he said. The Managing Director of Bobsky BB Integrated Resources, Mr. Bomlegaha Diyerin, another beneficiary, expressed his gratitude to Globacom for the free VIP tickets. ‘Globacom cares about its customers and we are not surprised that the company keeps waxing stronger everyday”, he said. Other subscribers who attended the show free of charge, courtesy of Globacom, included Engineers Onos Okhabhau and Andre Fomius of Nest Oil, Tare Fufeyin and Dikesi Blessing of Christ Mercy Land and Samson Efenudu of Dewayles Oil Limited, among numerous others. The evening of fun and laughter featured Kelvin Sapp, Young Chief Odogwu, MC Shakara and Mr. Flexy apart from the main act, Bovi, whose over one-hour performance capped the night. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .