INNOSON Nigeria Limited has filed a contempt action at the Federal High Court (FHC), Awka, Anambra State, against the managing director of Guaranty Trust Bank (GTB), Segun Agbaje, and two others, asking them to show why they should not be committed to prison. The other two are chairman of the bank, Mrs. Osaretin Demuren, and the secretary, Erhi Obededuo. In the contempt application filed on its behalf by Prof. McCarthy Mbadugha, Innoson urged the court to order the alleged contemnors to come and show cause why they should not be committed for contempt and sent to prison for their wilful violation of the subsisting orders of the Supreme Court, Court of Appeal and FHC. The applicant said the trio interfered with the courts’ administration of justice by thuggery and condemnable impunity on March 29 and 30, as well as on April 1, 2019. Innoson prayed for: “An order that the acts of thuggery, extreme hooliganism and outright lawlessness of the garnishee/debtor and/or the parties cited in this application in breaking into all the properties of the garnishee/debtor distressed, attached and seized by the bailiffs/sheriffs of the honourable court pursuant to a writ of Fi Fa (Fieri Facias) issued by the honourable court for that purpose and retrieved those properties, ‘undistressed’ (sic) as well as released them from attachment and or seizure amounts to a grievous contempt of this honourable court of the worst specie. “An order that the acts of thuggery, extreme hooliganism and outright lawlessness of the cited parties in obstructing and in stopping the sheriffs/bailiffs of the court from attaching, seizing and distressing the properties of the garnishee/debtor amounts to wilful and contemptuous violation of the subsisting order of this court as well as obstructing and interfering with the course of justice and due administration of justice. “An order denying the garnishe/debtor, the cited parties – contemnors – or any other person affiliated or related to them, their counsel further or other audience or an opportunity to seek judicial intervention or palliatives before the court – or any other court of the FHC until they purge themselves of contempt.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .