   Mr Olayinka Aderoju, Vice -Principal of the College, made the plea in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday in Lagos. Aderoju said that there was need to dredge the dam before June/July when the rain would become more intense and the dam would be forced open, hence flooding. “The Federal Government should immediately direct the Ogun-Osun River Basin Development Authority, a parastatal under the Federal Ministry of Water Resources in charge of dredging the dam to do the work. “The Oyan Dam, on the Ogun river basin is responsible for about 60 to 75 per cent of water that flows around the school vicinity towards Abeokuta. “The dam is usually full anytime from June/July and by October, if the rain does not subside, the authority of the dam will be forced to open it. “As soon as the dam is opened, it flows along waters in other tributaries and flood the area towards the lagoon, including NTIC, Opic and Isheri, ” he said. Aderoju said the school and its academic calendar was adversely affected by the flood and at most seasons could not operate during the raining period. He said the school was always in touch with the River Basin authority as from June/July to know the level of the water and if it had reached the gauge at which the dam would be opened. “Once there is a notice to the stakeholders within the area that the dam will be opened, we inform our parents weeks ahead if there will be need to evacuate their children.“We plan our activities with the water level and weather forecast from NIMET, ” he said. The vice-principal said although the problem had been addressed to a large extent, unlike in 2016, 2012 and 2010 when residents of the area had to be evacuated, there was need to still intensify efforts. He, however, lauded the Lagos and Ogun state governments for their intervention to ensure that the authorities of the basin began to release the water gradually before the dam was full. “With the intervention, there is enough space for the authorities to accommodate more water at least for a month before the dam is full and they will be forced to open it,” he said. NAN reports that the Nigeria Tulip International College was formerly known as the Nigeria Turkish International College before it changed its nomenclature.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .