 Dapo Abiodun  As a man who believe so much in His maker and allow God to guard and guide his path, he christened his ambition a divine agenda while his opponents relied on man to fight the electoral battle for them. Even in the face of wonderous storm – there was no time he defied his God. A video clip singing and bowed before God when he was declared by INEC better explain his reverence to simplicity, humility and obedient to God. Today, he has the Almighty God and the good people of Ogun State to thank for his victory. All obstacles placed on his way to victory were dismantled by God, crowning his efforts with success. As a mark of divine stamp on his ambition, God brought a new leadership to the party . The national chairman, Comr. Adams Oshiomhole is not a man that could be dictated to by the ruling force in the state who believed rootedly in the money magic. All attempt to blackmail him failed as he stood his ground and provided a level playing ground, which helped in securing the party ticket for him. Not only did majority of party members expressed their confidence in him, he was overwhelming voted to fly the party’s flag. Winning the fierce battle against his old friend was the first sign of a divine endorsement. Like play, his former friend’s house began to crumble. Scores of political appointees and kitchen cabinet resigned to fate by bowing to divine calling of Dapo who has contested three times without getting close to power. The reactionaries went to work to scuttle the ticket. They dug into their well know antics by making several visits to Aso Villa, taking photographs with the leader of the party and President of our nation, Muhammadu Buhari. Unknown to them, the president is a party man to the core and would not interfere in the activities of the party as long as due process was followed. Their several visits did not yield desired result for them. Their insistence on dictating to the people their next governor did also not go down with the people who kept quiet and was waiting for the appropriate time to speak out.In their bid for illegal third term in office, they insulted leaders of the party starting with Com. Oshiomhole, National Leader, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu, our own leader in the state Chief Olusegun Osoba as well as other leaders. Their mischief got to a boiling point when they not only insulted President Buhari during his electioneering campaign in the state but threw stones at him and other leaders of the party, forcing the rally to an abruyend. Someone who should give leadership went to sponsor his godson on another platform against the party.  Thanks to Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, a leader and great son of the soil who stood against the enemies of the party to steer the campaign on the path of victory. He along with our leader, Chief Osoba gave us good leadership and saucy portion which ended in a resounding victory for the APC in the state. The coming to power of Prince Abiodun has given hope to millions of our people that we now have a God given leader who will bring his experience as a successful businessman to bear on the governance of the state and rescue it from the years of locust whose only success is white elephant projects that have no bearing on our people. Dapo Abiodun’s success as a businessman no doubt is a great asset. He is well known as an accomplished business man whose investments spanned Oil and Gas, Textile and entertainment. As Chairman Corporate affairs Comminssion (CAC) he has established a trademark of excellence and proficiency to mode of service – diligent and hardworking Dapo wouldn’t undermine importance of meetings and service.
 
To have enjoyed the overwhelming support of the people at the ballot against the money bags plot to embarrass is a clear testimony of his acceptance and love by the people. As Candidate, he rode through 5 Electoral promises, which include free education to the youth from Nursery to Junior Secondary Schools and qualitative education; making Ogun State an industrial hub through investment, and siting of industries to provide job opportunities for teeming unemployed youths. To Ogun people it is time to rally round our governor-elect and ensure that he succeeds in given us good leadership that has been missing in the last seven years.
Adegbenro wrote from Lagos  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .