Sean “Diddy” Combs has revealed his times with his ex Kim Porter in an exclusive interview with Essence magazine.
In the May issue of Essence, the 49-year-old said that before she passed on, she had this to say: “Three days before she passed, she wasn’t feeling well. She had the flu, and she sent the kids over to my house so they wouldn’t get sick.” “One night I was checking on her, and she was like, ‘Puffy, take care of my babies.’ She actually said that to me before she died.” diddy and family Those words would hit him hard when she was reported dead at her home in California. “I jumped into mommy mode. I sent people in every direction to try to make sure the kids would not hear about it on social media or the news. I had to get to the girls’ school and find Quincy, who was on set in Atlanta. Christian was on a plane, and I had his phone disconnected so he wouldn’t read it in the air,” Combs explained “I was crying out to God — and to her — and almost immediately Kim’s voice kicked in, and I could hear her saying, ‘Make sure you take care of my babies,’” Combs tells Essence. Together they have three children, 21-year-old Christian, and 12-year-old twin daughters Jessie James and D’Lila. Quincy (27) is her son from a previous relationship. Speaking on the depth of his relationship with her, he said that there was never a time the children were not talked about. diddy and family “Every time Kim and I talked, it was about the kids. We’d check in as friends, of course, but we never had a conversation that didn’t include the kids. It was on some superhero s—. I ain’t even gonna lie. On some level, I knew she was training me for this. I knew that I had to be ready to do whatever I was supposed to do if something like this ever happened.” Since then, he has improved with his involvement with his family to honour Porter who died of lobar pneumonia. “Before this, I was a part-time father, you know? My family was always first, but there are countless times when I chose work over everything else. But every day I can hear her telling me to go and spend some time with the kids and make sure everybody’s all right, like she would do. I’m just a lot more present, and, most important, now my kids come before anything else in my life.” He also mentioned that the family is coping “really well” with the grief. diddy and family “We have a great family. the way we’re handling it together. From Sarah [Chapman, Chance’s mom] to Misa [Hylton-Brim, Justin’s mother] to all of Kim’s friends, the grandparents — it takes a village,” Combs tells the magazine. “We’re doing really because her passing has changed us and made us love each other more. I’m happy to say that, because at first I really didn’t know how we’d be doing.” “Because of Kim we’re doing this well, because of the way she loved us,” Combs adds. Porter and Diddy began dating in the 90s but broke up in 1999 and went to court to battle over child support. Diddy went on to date Jennifer Lopez for two years before they reconciled in 2003 and finally split in 2007.