 Oyo State House of Assembly. Photo/facebook/oyohouseofassembly/  Ojo said this while commenting on a motion on the need to avert loss of lives on highways occasioned by reckless driving and violation of traffic regulations by regulatory agencies. The motion was jointly sponsored by Hon. Abdulwasih Musah, the Deputy Speaker and Hon. Kehinde Subair, the Majority Leader. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the motion followed an accident involving an FRSC vehicle which was trying to apprehend a Micra taxi on April 12 at Akinyele on the Ibadan-Oyo Expressway. “ FRSC in Oyo State should investigate the accident involving FRSC official vehicle on duty and commercial taxi cab at Akinyele, Ibadan, on April 12, while the erring officers should be punished accordingly “ Any erring driver should be noted and its plate numbers taken with a view to apprehending them at an appropriate time. “The executives of organised transport unions in the state should further educate their members on the need to obey traffic regulations and traffic enforcement agencies “They must sensitise their members on the need to collaborate with government agencies in charge of traffic. “The unions dwell on collection of levies from members but pays no attention to the state of members’ vehicles, most of which are rickety and are not road worthy “The unions were advised to orientate drivers to obtain necessary papers and this makes them to evade personnel of the FRSC and police as well as Vehicle Inspection Officers, ” said Ojo. He said motorists, who had regularised their vehicle particulars, should have nothing to fear from FRSC personnel. Ojo said the FRSC had earned commendations from the public over the years, adding that the operatives should remain diligent in the performance of their duties so as to retain their good image. Musah, on his part, said the house must seek measures to prevent recurrence of such accidents. “ The responsibilities of officials of the Federal Road Safety Corps officials as well as other law enforcement agencies must be carried out with absolute civility; they should not take laws into their hands “ It takes two to tango, the motorists too should comply with all road regulations especially in terms of documentation “The reason why most of the drivers will not wait for VIO, Police and FRSC officials is because they do not have necessary papers, ” said Musah.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .