An integrated ICT firm, New Horizon, has offered $6000 seed funding to promote techpreneurship among undergraduates and tasked them on developing problem solving skills. The Managing Director, New Horizon, Tim Akano, said the fund is to encourage the undergraduates develop innovate ideas that can compete with global standards and remained relevant in the changing tech world. Speaking during the Bowen University’s Innovation & Entrepreneurship Revolution conference, organised by the firm in collaboration with the institution, Akano added that the most important skills to thrive in the fourth revolution are critical thinking, creativity, collaboration and communication. He said: “New Horizon finds its strength in being able to manage market data and feedback from global leaders in the tech industry. As technology shifts and new challenges arise, we remain innovative and agile with our service offerings.” Akano charged the students to identify challenges in their environment and proffer solutions to them, adding that money is only a derivative of labour and should not be the drive of an entrepreneur. “This is because the bigger the problem, the bigger the market and eventual turnover. Good ideas come from issue that is annoying to you or anything people are complaining about. Don’t waste a crisis; analyse the situation and offer solutions to it. There are many business opportunities around you,” he added. Chief Customer Architect, ECEMBA, Architecture Innovation & Strategy, Oracle, Dr. Oyenuga Olufemi, said the fourth industrial revolution and the world of business have no boundaries. “There’s a transformational technology driven by Artificial Intelligence (AI), blockchain and internet of things. Be aware of the global trends. Regardless of your academic pursuit, you can excel in any course of study using technology. It is now about the fusion of entrepreneurs and technology because there are no sufficient white collar jobs in the country, coupled with the infrastructural challenge,” he added. Olufemi urged the students to change their thought pattern to finding solutions that suits the constant digital change. Meanwhile, students of Bowen University have launched a campus eSecurity app to bridge security communication gap and ensure social responsibility of all in the school. The team leader and a 200Level Medicine and Surgery student, Bowen University, Akinlua Oluwaseun, said the app will boost safety and security efforts of the institution.  She added that issues of drugs, security announcements, lost but found items are functions that the app affords users. “It’s a two way communication system with options that allow security officials, staff and students to upload security information. This app will drastically reduce crime rates in the school,” she added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .