 Transcorp Hilton Hotel,  Beyond the luxury accommodation, festive dining and entertainment, the highpoint of the package for the season is the popular Easter Brunch slated for Sunday, April 21. Speaking on the packages, Public Relations Manager of the hotel, Mr. Shola Adeyemo notes “it is a perennial favourite with the weekend brunching crowd in the city”, adding that the celebration with its numerous offers opens on April 18 and runs through April 22 He said, “The most talked about Sunday Brunch in the city has an annual Easter theme for the yearly feast. This year, we promise our esteemed customers and guests an unlimited rounds of goodness spread across the buffet at the famous Bukka Restaurant.” “Our customers and guests can now enjoy Easter Sunday at interesting discount off the price of a sumptuous brunch of specially selected buffet highlights such as oven-roasted lamb and hot cross buns at the Bukka and Fulani Pool Restaurants,” he added. Adeyemo also informed that the hotel’s chefs have decked up a magnificent Easter feast that is larger than usual with all the trimmings, seasonal favorites and endless buffet on Nigerian and continental specialties. Meanwhile, the stage is also set to delight the kids by indulging them with the Hinton’s ‘Eggciting’. This is one of the most fascinating activities for the little ones, comprising buffet corner and special Easter chocolate.Other exciting packages for the kids during the Easter weekend include egg races, egg hunting egg painting, face painting and swimming pool games. There are also kids club activities, aerobics classes and tennis tournament. “We are set to create a refreshing and truly festive experience for our guests during the Easter weekend. The Easter package available at the 667-room Transcorp Hilton, includes accommodations for two adults and two children in a standard room,” said Kevin Brett, General Manager of the hotel. In the spirit of the season, the outfit is equally offering pricing options for other room types. The price also includes taxes, buffet breakfast, Wi-Fi and access to all the recreational facilities. Booking is open for the package for stays between April 18 and April 22.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .