Mavin Records new young artist Rema has recently come under fire for insisting that Wizkid and some of his other colleagues might sound like him. The young artist whose music is relatively new to the Nigerian scene made the statement in an interview, stating that he doesn’t sound like Wizkid, rather it is the Starboy who sounds like him. This is coming after there has been wide spread commentary that the rookie sounds a lot like Wizkid.
When asked about being compared to Wizkid, Reekado Banks and Skiibii, he said “I don’t sound like anyone actually, they might sound like me but I don’t sound like anyone.” Since Rema’s bold statement hit social media, people have had mixed feelings about his claim with some encouraging him for being confident enough to make such a remark and others condemning his statement as unwarranted pride. Below are fans reactions to the whole saga; Naso e dey start, he never reach elastic limit he wan dey drag himself go breaking point… Accept the compliment no harm in it… There a lot of artist out there with better potential that didn't blow o let that sink in!!! — Oluwanifemi B.O (@Valentinefire_) April 10, 2019  Know your worth boo — Maria Robert (@mariahudiya) April 10, 2019  When did u start music u Lil boy not even up to level of ozzybosco to talk of Lil kesh..u where with king wizking December now u just start not up to his boy level and u talking nonsense — @zaddy k (@EdomaKelvin) April 10, 2019  But forreal though, he sounded like Wizkid on corny & dumebi. His standout track was why the rap song. — E Z R A (@Aspire_ng) April 10, 2019  How can they sound like you, when they started b4 you pic.twitter.com/GjZMiEe2B5 — YE  MI (@BlackTiyemi) April 10, 2019  Thank you! I don’t even understand why people are bashing him. He’s clearly confident and he knows his worth. — #GimmeLove Out now (@Raysizzler) April 11, 2019  pic.twitter.com/MHtiaz6DHt — BABA OLOYE (@aayobami_) April 10, 2019  I like the boy, he knows his worth and he is confident in his sound. — Mansa Ali Dembélé (@aleeyutemmy_) April 10, 2019  The boy too bad — Teekay Bad boy fun won je bi Titus (@TKblings) April 10, 2019  I am in love with the boy abeg… He is good and he "knows" it… Haba, dem just dey stress the kid over self worth statement… — Nicky Nwasi (@NickyNwasi) April 11, 2019  