Beyonce headlines Coachella in 2018 and the feat made her the first black woman to headline the prestigious music festival. In characteristic Beyonce fashion, she shut down the show so much so that fans renamed it Beychella and her performance went on to become one of the most talked about in the history of the show. Beyonce’s Coachella set the bar for other artists so much so that when it came to the choice of this year’s headliner, organisers had to ensure to pick someone that could at least hold a match to Bey’s shine. The choice for this year fell on “God Is A Woman” crooner, Ariana Grande and the choice of choosing her as headliner made her the youngest person to ever headline the Coachella festival. Now, according to online reports, it has been gathered that the Grammy award-winning Grande raked in N2.8 billion ($8 million) for her two headline slots at Coachella festival. While she is totally deserving of the fee, what has got folks talking is the fact that the amount is reportedly twice the amount Beyonce got for her gig. According to Business Insider, Beyonce was paid approximately N1.4 billion ($4 million) for her 2018, two-hour “Homecoming” show that sparked a Netflix documentary and a live album of the same name where she performed dozens of her hit songs. However, this year, Variety says that Grande earned twice as much for her show where she sang her chart-topping tracks from all five of her albums while closely following the same setlist for her “Sweetener World Tour.” Speaking about Grande’s Coachella gig, her production designer, LeRoy Bennett told The Hollywood Reporter, “Because Beyoncé came in last year and did her thing and kind of set the bar, basically Coachella becomes a competition, which is ridiculous. And artists who are strong should just come in and do their own thing and just be who they are. And that’s pretty much what Ariana has done. There’s not like there’s a bunch of gags. She’s being Ariana and singing and doing her thing.” It would be recalled that Beyonce recently dropped a surprise album, “Homecoming” on her fans after releasing a Netflix film of the same name.