The Guardians Kingsley Jeremiah (left); Presidential Adviser; Nigerian Association for Energy Economics (NAEE), Prof. Akin Iwayemi and immediate past President, NAEE, Prof. Adeola Adenikinju at the associations award ceremony in Abuja where Jeremiah emerged Energy Correspondent of the Year. The Guardian’s energy reporter, Kingsley Jeremiah, was Monday night awarded Energy Correspondent of Year by the Nigerian Association for Energy Economics (NAEE) for his outstanding reportage of the oil and gas and power sector in Nigeria. Speaking at the event, immediate past President, NAEE, Prof. Adeola Adenikinju said the council of the association reviewed articles published on the energy sector across newspapers in the country in the last one year and found Jeremiah’s worthy of recognition. President of NAEE, Prof Wunmi Iledare said the honour is one of the associations highest awards. Encouraging the reporter to continue in his fearless reportage, Iledare said:  The conferment of this award is in recognition of your distinguished leadership and contributions to the development of the Energy sector in Nigeria. “The NAEE is the Nigerian affiliate of the International Association for Energy Economics (IAEE) based in the USA, with affiliations in over 100 countries. “The NAEE is the largest body of energy professionals in Nigeria with membership cutting across engineers, lawyers, economists, finance experts, graduate, students and others who are interested in the economic of energy system . “Several distinguished Nigerians are members of the NAEE and this will be the seventh set of awards that will be conferred on very few but notable Nigerians who have excelled in the energy sector. Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Maikanti Baru and Managing Director of Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC), Ernest Mupwaya were equally recognised at the event.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .