Director Eko Hotels Limited Caline Chagoury Moudaber presenting Adegote with the trophy and dummy cheque at the grand finale Just recently, the Eko Hotels and Suites Lagos expressed its determination to invest considerably to ensure a more eco-friendly culture is embedded into the daily operation of its business. With travellers consistently seeking accommodation that supports eco-friendly initiatives, the hotel, which hosts over 500 clients a year, is introducing environmentally conscious elements and attitudes to running its operations. In line with its ‘Going Green’ initiative, the hotel recently hosted an eco-friendly art fontest for students across selected schools in Lagos. The grand finale, which was held on Monday, formed part of activities to mark this year’s Earth Day. In the end, Adegoke Ademola, a 14-year-old student of Kings College, Lagos, win the grand prize, with N250,000 cash prize. Adegoke, whose painting was adjudged best by the panel of judges, beat other nine finalists to emerge winner. Meanwhile, both first and second runners-ups, who represented British International School and Holy Child College, got cash prize of N150,000 and N100,000 respectively, while all the finalists got consolation prizes of an Apple IPad each. The contestants for the maiden edition of the event were drawn from 10 schools across Eti-Osa Local Council of Lagos State. “I feel happy winning this competition. Actually, I didn’t plan to entre for it, but when I saw one of our teachers with the flyer, I decided to entre for it. I will give part of the money to my mother, while I will use the remaining to set up a project I’ve been working on,” Adegoke said. The second prizewinner Abdulazim Akindele commended the hotel for creating a platform for young people to understand the importance of eco-friendly environment. “I’m very happy to make my school and family proud and I thank the organiser for this great opportunity,” he said. Speaking at the event, the Managing Director of Eko Hotel, Ghassan Faddoul, said the contest is part of the hotel’s contribution towards achieving an eco-friendly environment. “An eco-friendly committee was developed by the hotel to get a genuine cause to make a better environment which is our paramount aim and objective. The change must start at home, change our habit of how to care for our wastes and imbibe such in the children. All stakeholders must come together to partner and get all types of reforms or laws that will encourage us to improve and continue the trend of protecting the environment. “Other stakeholders in the industry should also look into the future on how to eliminate the use of plastic in the waste and protect the ocean from waste,” he said. Addressing the gathering, an environmental expert and one of the judges for the contest, Taiwo Adewole, urged other organisations and corporate bodies in the hospitality business to emulate Eko Hotel by going green. He said that students should be encouraged to be interested in waste management and tree planting as well as renewable energy in order to ensure a sustainable environment. In its characteristic pursuit of growth and excellence, Eko Hotels and Suites has raised the in the Nigerian hospitality industry when the Board and Management made a corporate decision to officially embark on an Eco-friendly way of life. Concerned about its immediate environment and the global community, the hotel is determined to make considerable investment in ensuring a more eco-friendly culture is embedded into the daily operation of its business. In line with the new thinking, the staff have undergone several weeks of training and re-orientation to make them environmentally responsible and conscious of how we affect our environment. They are being equipped with the necessary tools required to aid them in leading the change towards an eco- friendly hotel and they are championing the eco – friendly drive with keen interest. On the other hand, energy consumption has significantly reduced, several water conservation practices have been adopted, gradually, utensils/amenities are being replaced with biodegradable options and hundreds of children are being sensitized on the need to reduce our carbon footprint. According to the Chairman Mr. Christopher Chagoury, “We are far more than just a global and local leader, we are the equivalent of a community that hosts over 500,000 Clients each year providing them with water, energy, food and a hospitable environment. With ‘Eco’ right in our DNA, the board of directors decided it was time to expose our guests to a more Caring and greener lifestyle. We want to share the opportunity to experience what a greener, more wonderful world could be. You are invited to ride with us on the green side as we join hands to contribute our quota in preserving planet earth.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .