 NCC Insists SIM Card Registration is Mandatory<br />– Holds Sensitization Workshop. Photo/Twitter/NgComCommission  Idehen, at the regional sensitisation workshop with stakeholders in Enugu, said, it was the responsibility of NCC to ensure that Nigerians were safe using mobile phones. The workshop was organised to address the dangers of dealing on fraudulently-activated sim cards. Idehen said that it was sad that fraudulently-registered sim cards were still sold in the market in spite of efforts by the regulatory agency to the contrary. The director said that Mobile Network Operators (MNOs) and their agents must adhere to the laws that prohibit the release of fully-activated sim cards into the market. He described the release of pre-registered sim cards to the market place as a national sabotage which is capable of eroding national security. Idehen named the dangers of selling pre-registered sim cards to include aiding kidnapping, robbery, financial crimes and others. “For eight years now we have done so many things to curb the sales of pre-registered sim cards but not getting the desired results. “We are, therefore, working on a legal framework to criminalise the release of fraudulently-activated sim cards to the market,’’ he said. Idehen said that it had become imperative to check or remove the menace posed by itinerant registration agents and to ensure that sim card registrations were carried out in controlled environments. He said that the NCC introduced sim card registration for national security and not for the MNOs to know their customers. He urged MNOs to be circumspect in their businesses, saying that any infraction would cause the arrest and prosecution of all actors along the sim card registration value-chain. “We started sim card registration because of our national security and not for the MNOs to know their customers,” he said. He said that the NCC was also working with the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) to determine the role it would play in the registration process. Idehen said that it was unlawful for any single individual to register more than five sim cards in his or her name.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .