 [FILE PHOTO] PDP chief, Uche Secondus  Briefing journalists in Abuja, yesterday, the PDP National Chairman, Uche Secondus, alleged that “the apparent incompetence of the ruling APC in the handling of affairs of governance has continued to take a huge toll on the nation.” The PDP boss further observed that the President’s trip to the United Kingdom without transmitting hand over letter to the National Assembly was a demonstration of impunity. Secondus added: “Security situation has been such that prominent Nigerian clerics have been raising serious concern on the issue of leadership, even questioning whether we really have a Commander-in-Chief in this country. While the Presidency continues to argue that there exists government in our country today, what obtains in reality is different. The level of bloodletting occasioned by the barrage of criminalities across the country can only be happening in a country without government.” The PDP National Chairman further lamented that things had gone so worse that Nigerians now live in great fear and trembling for their lives like never before. “From Kaduna to Zamfara, Benue to Taraba, Plateau, Lagos to Enugu etc., bloodletting is continuing unabated. Even the President’s home state of Katsina has lost about eight local government areas to bandits, not to talk of the North East. “Just last week, a female foreign humanitarian worker, Faye Mooney, a Briton was brutally shot dead in Kajuru, Kaduna State. The situation has deteriorated to the extent that this country can no longer protect the lives of international aid workers who are here to help us clear our mess. “The senseless continuous bloodletting in Kaduna State should be blamed on the type of provocative leadership existing in that state and indirectly encouraged by the Federal Government. The ‘body bag’ governor in the state does not seem to know how to engender peace among the people; his actions and utterances facilitate instead of ameliorate the ill feelings among the people,” Secondus said. According to him, “rather than give teeth to governance and address biting national issues of concern like the insecurity, this government exerts all its energies and resources planning nefariously how to undermine democratic institutions.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .