WITH 10 gold, seven silver and seven bronze medals, Amber House emerged the overall winner of the maiden inter-house sports competition of Brains Premier School, Amuwo-Odofin, Lagos. Topaz House came second with eight gold, three silver and three bronze medals, while Emerald House came third with five gold, eight silver and nine bronze medals. The Proprietress of the school, Rev. Mrs. Ezinne Onoh, who was overwhelmed by the pupils’ show of talents, said sports must be made part of education as by so doing, schools will not only produce well-rounded and balanced individuals, but will also discover raw talents that will represent the nation in the future. She said education and sports must be well synergised so that pupils with extraordinary gifts will have ample opportunity to further develop their talents. The pupils through series of field events and indoor games demonstrated their athletic abilities to the excitement of their parents, teachers and other guests. Onoh added, “When a child is athletic, the child is sound all round and mentally alert. It helps the brain and every other area, including academics. So it develops the brain further and helps the student to do well even in academics. It is also important because it is through such activities that you can spot raw talents and provide them with opportunities to nurture and develop their gifts. ” Stressing the need for the revival of school sports, she emphasised that through such exercise great sportsmen and women that will represent the country locally and internationally are identified. Recalling how she quit sports as a student years back because she was not allowed to write the test she missed while away representing her school in sports, Onoh regretted that some pupils do not receive adequate support when they participate or represent their schools in sporting activities. On his part, Mr. Lawrence Nwogoh, who chaired the event, urged all stakeholders to deepen effort in promoting school sports, saying that it was a trusted means of engaging young people meaningfully. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .