 Kogi State Governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello.  Letting the people win
AT the build up to the recent general elections, President Buhari had enjoined voters to reject governors that failed to pay workers’ salaries at the polls. The implication of the statement is that the ballot box presents the golden opportunity for the people to win. In Kogi State, the distance between the people and their governor is relative and subject to conjecture.  A security expert, Dr. Joseph Erico Ameh, told The Guardian that what Kogi people expect from President Buhari is for him to rein in security agencies and ensure that they are not at the beck and call of the ruling APC.
 
Ameh said if security officials do their work with patriotism and in an unbiased way, politicians, especially gladiators would reckon that it is no longer business as usual, stressing that Nigerian voters have become wiser and know how to discipline selfish and arrogant leaders.
 
While recalling how, during the recent general elections in the state, violence, intimidation and use of weapons to scare voters away became the order of the day, Ameh said if as many as six persons lost their lives in Kogi East Senatorial District, it could only be imagined what would happen during the governorship. On the likelihood that the ruling party would take recourse to violence to retain the state against the people’s aspirations, Ameh, who is also the Chief Executive Officer of Real Strike Security Services Limited, said he hopes to bring his wealth of experience to bear.
  
While expressing his determination to participate in the governorship election, the security expert said Kogi people are resolute and should not be scared of taking part in deciding who governs the state in the next four years.  Adhoc staff
ONE other area INEC should demonstrate its capacity to learn from its mistakes is in the use of ad hoc staff. Recently a former chairman of the commission, Prof. Attahiru Jega, accused politicians of using university lecturers, who served as INEC’s ad hoc staff, to rig elections.
  
It is also an open secret that INEC officials collude with politicians to swap trained ad hoc staff. Since the Kogi and Bayelsa gubernatorial elections are coming up on the same day, the commission would do its image a great disservice if it does not begin now to recruit those it intends to use as ad hoc staff.
  
The commission could borrow a leaf from Imo State Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) Prof. Chukwuemeka Ezeonu, who kept the ad hoc staff in the dark where they would be deployed for the election until D-day. That way, political jobbers would be at a loss who to influence or induce.
 
Without doubt violence is believed to be possible common feature of the Kogi and Bayelsa governorship elections. Whatever the commission might offer as excuses for failure would make nonsense of the experience it has garnered over the years, particularly following from the 2019 elections where the commission received a lot of knocks for its sloppiness in the conduct of the exercise. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .