For weeks now, there has been a lingering debate about whether internet fraud popuarly known as ‘yahoo yahoo’ is an actual crime. The conversation started when Nigerian songbird, Simi asked internet fraudsters known as Yahoo Boys to stop listening and promoting the songs of Nigerian artistes. According to the “Tiff” crooner, the perpetrators of yahoo yahoo are bringing shame to Nigeria. Responding to Simi’s call out of Yahoo Boys, Naira Marley said in a post of his that Yahoo Yahoo is not a crime as anyone who knows the history of slavery would understand. His comment sparked a heated debate as some took sides with him while others took Simi’s path. Following the argument about whether Yahoo is a crime or not , Naira Marley took to social media to allege that Simi snubbed him at an event but she was quick to deny the allegation. She claimed she never saw him at the said event and she has no reason to snub him as they are neither friends nor enemies. She said during her radio interview with Beat FM, “To be honest with you, I have zero issues with Naira Marley, I don’t have anything against him, he is not my enemy. We are not friends, we are not enemies. I saw him coming, we did not make eyes contacts, he did not talk to me, I did not talk to him. It is funny because he didn’t do anything to me, he did not directly disrespect me, he is not the first person that would say what he is saying. I’m not a stupid person, I’m not going to antagonize you because I’m not dumb. I like to mind my business. Probably he saw something and said something else. But he never spoke to me, he didn’t approach me and I saw that and I said whatever makes you happy. And for me I’m a big picture person, I look at the big picture and if you are not in the picture, I’m not going to stress myself.” Naira Marley has now replied her denial insisting that she saw him and made a face at him. He stated that how she acted around him was quite different from how other artists and also singer Teni, whom he says is more bigger than her, acted around him. Simi is yet to respond to his claim as at the time of filing this report. It would be recalled that shortly after Simi called out yahoo boys, her husband, Adekunle Gold was alleged to have helped yahoo boys to falsify documents when he was still a graphics designer. However, Adekunle Gold who is now a successful singer shut down the allegation saying there was never any such time. 