Annie Idibia has disclosed in a recent interview that she does not want to be identified as just her husband, 2Face Idibia’s wife. The award-winning Nollywood actress revealed that she would rather be called by her name instead of her identity being attached to her husband’s status.  In the said interview, the mother of two also spoke about her career and marriage. Read excerpts below: “This year started for me quite tough. I spent the first three months of this year in the hospital with my father because he had been sick for a while but God has been great and I am grateful. I am actually closer to my mother than my father because she raised us single-handedly. My father is still my father and since he was sick we had to rally round him. Growing up with only my mother really affected my life and I suffered and I do not ever want my children to face the agony of not having both parents together because it was so hard for us. Even right now, the way the world is, children are more enlightened than we were in our days, so the pressure would be harder on the kids from broken homes right now. I do not want my children to ever experience that.” On her career and how she would love to be addressed, she said, “I took a break from my career because after I got married, I got pregnant so I had a baby and had to get used to the new life. I think I did not do any movie for about three years. Being addressed as Tubaba’s wife instead of Annie the actress has been a problem that I have been trying to work on for a long time. I want to believe that I have successfully been able to identify and differentiate my brand as Annie Idibia the actress/career woman and Annie Idibia the wife/mother. I prefer being addressed as Annie and not Tubaba’s wife. I hate this because I am my own person and have worked hard to build my career and brand. I should be identified and respected on that basis.” It would be recalled that Annie was one of the video vixens that appeared in 2Face’s classic song, “African Queen”. The duo dated on and off for years with 2Face fathering children from two other women before he finally tied the knot with Annie in 2012. The couple has been going strong ever since and from time to time, display their affection for each other on social media. Annie once revealed in a social media post that she would like to die shortly after 2Face dies because she cannot imagine a world without him.