 South African President Cyril Ramaphosa (2ndL) addresses the crowd gathered at the Miki Yili Stadium, ahead of the celebrations for the 25th anniversary of Freedom Day, in Makhanda, Eastern Cape Province on April 27, 2019. – Freedom Day commemorates the first democratic post-apartheid elections held in South Africa on April 27, 1994. (Photo by Michele Spatari / AFP)  Speaking at a ceremony in Makhanda, formerly Grahamstown, in the south of the country, Ramaphosa said that South Africans were “gathered here to celebrate the day we won our freedom.” The first democratic elections were held in South Africa on April 27, 1994, with blacks — who make up three quarters of the population — voting for the first time, bringing to an end three centuries of white rule and the apartheid regime in place since 1948. “We remember the moment we placed a cross on a ballot paper for the first time in our lives,” the president said, paying homage to Nelson Mandela, the anti-apartheid campaigner who was elected South Africa’s first black president in 1994. Nevertheless, “we cannot be a nation of free people when so many still live in poverty,” Ramaphosa said. “We cannot be a nation of free people when so many live without enough food, without proper shelter, without access to quality health care, without a means to earn a living,” he continued. “We cannot be a nation of free people when funds meant for the poor are wasted, lost or stolen (…) when there is still corruption within our own country.” Ramaphosa is head of the African National Congress (ANC), the party that has been in power since the end of apartheid. South Africa President Cyril Ramaphosa (C) addresses the crowd at the Miki Yili Stadium, Makhanda, Eastern Cape Province, ahead of the celebrations for the 25th anniversary of Freedom Day on April 27, 2019. – Freedom Day commemorates the first democratic post-apartheid elections held in South Africa on April 27, 1994. (Photo by Michele Spatari / AFP)  “As we celebrate 25 years of democracy, we need to focus all our attention and efforts on ensuring that all South Africans can equally experience the economic and social benefits of freedom,” Ramaphosa said. Despite the emergence of a middle class in South Africa, the continent’s economic powerhouse, 20 percent of black households still live in dire poverty, compared with only 2.9 percent of white households, according to the Institute of Race Relations. The unemployment rate in South Africa currently stands at 27 percent, compared with 20 percent in 1994.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .