 [FILE] Member of the Senate, Alhaji Ali Ndume  Unfolding a nine point agenda yesterday in Abuja, Ndume (Borno South), promised to improve upon the performance of the eighth Senate, saying he would make the position less attractive by reducing what he described as ‘unnecessary privileges’ attached to the office Promising to uphold the independence of the legislature, he, however, expressed willingness to “work harmoniously and inter-dependently with the executive without undermining the principle of separation of powers.” Ndume said he would prioritise and ensure the passing of the Constituency Development Bill to make constituency projects more transparent, accountable, efficient and effective in the country. “In synergy with fellow senators, I will ensure that the Senate will agree on timelines for confirmation, approval of bills, especially the annual budgets, which will not exceed 90 days from the date of submission. “We will make laws that will block leakages and devise improved means of generating revenue, especially through amendment and review of the nation’s tax laws, which will help to reduce reliance on local and foreign loans to finance budget,” he stated. Ndume also pledged to uphold the party’s principles and policies, adding that the Senate under his watch will make laws and review existing ones to be in tandem with APC’s next level agenda for the country. Meanwhile, the North Central APC Ambassadors has staged a peaceful protest to the party’s national secretariat asking that the position of Speaker, House of Representatives, be zoned to the region. It argued that the North Central generated about 2.4 million votes for President Muhammadu Buhari during the general elections in which he emerged victorious. In a letter dated April 1, 2019 and addressed to National Chairman of APC, Adams Oshiomhole, the group insisted that the zone should be rewarded with the position in view of the number of votes it delivered to the President during the poll. The letter, signed by five state coordinators of the zone and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), comprised Muyideen Yusuf (Kwara), Rita Longjap (Plateau), Muhammad Ibn Muhammad (Niger), Lucas Cassius (Nasarawa), Yahaya Dauda (FCT) and Shehu Araga (Kogi). It argued that since the North West has the President, South West has the Vice President, while the Senate President has been zoned to the North East, the House Speakership should naturally be zoned to North Central.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .