As communal clashes between Jukun and Tiv communities in Taraba and Benue states continue, no fewer than 15 dead bodies of Tiv victims were again recovered yesterday at Vaase settlement in Ukum Local Government Area of Benue State. This followed the razing of over 100 houses in the clashes in both sides of the divide. Confirming the incidence, Special Adviser to Governor Samuel Ortom on Security, Col. Paul Hemba (rtd.) said intelligence revealed that the Jukun people have joined forces with the Fulani to perpetuate killings of Tiv people. He said over 3,000 persons have been displaced since the crisis broke out last week and are presently camped at Jootar in Ukum Council. Besides, the Tiv Youth Organisation has knocked President Muhamadu Buhari over comments credited to him on why Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom left the All Progressives Congress (APC) to Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Buhari was quoted to have told members of Nigerian community in Dubai that Ortom left APC due to unresolved issues concerning open grazing of cattle in Benue State. But in a statement yesterday by its President General, Timothy Hembaor the group faulted the President’s comment, saying: “It was a confirmation of Buhari’s anti-Benue posture and confirms Ortom’s lack of confidence in federal authorities to protect his people. He described as laughable the assertion by President Buhari that those killing Benue people were not Fulani herdsmen in Nigeria. Meanwhile, leaders of Adara Community, in Kajuru have cautioned the state government against using state powers to clamp down on the people of Southern Kaduna who are victims of armed banditry. Speaking under the Adara Development Association (ADA) yesterday, the group decried killings in Kajuru and other parts of Southern Kaduna, saying in spite of the attacks on the people of the area, the state government has not stopped arresting it indigenes. In a statement signed by its Vice chairman, James Auta and Assistant Secretary General, Luka Waziri, it noted that a new wave of killings broke out and has refused to abate since the state government’s pronouncement on the murders.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .