ASUU meeting Why do people strike? To exercise democracy, paralyze insufficient order, inhibit civil organizations, voice widespread frustrations, or exhibit social confrontation, right? We carry out any of the above because we are displeased stakeholders within an environment, so we will go on strike until we get the attention we deserve. Method of strikes vary – of course we have the violent displays, the peaceful confrontations, and then we have just plain dormancy. Place the incessant ASUU strikes into the appropriate ‘why’ and ‘how’ categories listed. We get it- something somewhere is seriously wrong. In the most recent episode, ASUU (Academic Staff Union of Universities) announced its strike in November 2018 as a result of the federal government’s breach of agreement signed with the union in the past years. This strike went on for 3 months, ending in February 2019 after ASUU issued a “conditional suspension” of the nationwide higher education paralysis. I strongly agree there is a need to improve access to funding for public universities. There is a need to reposition Nigerian universities for global reckoning and international competition. We need technology, laboratories, modern libraries, dignifying lecture halls and dormitories. In expressing frustrations on this matter and pushing the government to take action, ASUU is the voice for students, faculty, university stakeholders and society at large. By all means ASUU, please fight for the progress we need.
But… students are taken away from their academic responsibilities for extended periods of time, which of course has its negative impacts with grave ripple effects. This wasn’t the first or last time ASUU will strike, in fact there has been a strike nearly every year since 1999. Urgent and critical attention needs to be given to fundamental challenges hindering university students from their rights to earn a degree without constant disruptions to their academic calendars.The solution lies between the staff union and government leaders but when elephants fight, it is the grass that suffers. ASUU strikes paralyze public higher education activity; it affects desiring students, current students, and alumni of public institutions. As this strike was called off, the federal government and ASUU signed a Memorandum of Action of 2019 providing N20b to the universities for now, with a promise of an additional N25b between April and May 2019. These funds are to be used to reposition the entire university environment to better enable them to deliver on their mandate.To reduce or avoid agitations like this that impede students’ academic progress in the future, we need to seek solutions that will dignify each stakeholder. Recommendations
Establish an intermediary forum with escalation protocol before strike actions are considered Stakeholders (ASUU, students, parents and government) should establish a forum where together, they can communicate and map out actionable steps on issues, along with target effective dates. Long before a strike action is considered, other means in getting the government to listen should be employed. The power of the media is very instrumental in gaining public attention and support. Increase annual budgetary allocation for education
The government should not only increase funding for the education sector but also:
Enact or refresh comprehensive academic and administrative requirements for institutions to meet in order to receive full funding
Appoint a sophisticated support group that assists tertiary institutions in meeting these requirements Diversify university funding streams
Universities are heavily reliant on public funding and need to take steps to diversify revenue sources. Options to consider include alumni funding, endowments, international research grants, asset utilization (i.e. space rentals, paid parking), crowd funding. Establish an institutional monitoring and assessment body.  
This establishment should monitor how universities manage the resources allocated to them by the federal and state governments. If university management painstakingly account for how they use resources, they will be better positioned to make demands. It is important that this body remain unbiased and is highly sophisticated with positions reserved only for professional analysts. Mandate re-orientation and re-skilling of university faculty and staff
The quality of academic offerings weighs heavily on the rigor, passion, and integrity of faculty and staff. With the right training and orientation programs, faculty and staff can push our universities to set higher standards for academic delivery and student services that elevate our educational system to a global scale.These recommendations are based on my knowledge of publicly available information and are by no means exhaustive. ASUU strikes and other tertiary education challenges are deeply rooted and will require an overhaul of legacy systems along with decades of planning, and extensive reviews of policies. I remain hopeful that we will soon find the right solutions that will restore students’ confidence in their academic clocks.
•Majekodunmi is higher education strategy and operations consultant and Country Manager for Nexford University.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .