Commander, Nigerian Army Infantry Corps, Maj.-Gen. Stevenson Olabanji (left); Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai; and Commander, 1 Division, Maj-Gen. Faruk Yahaya, during the 2019 Nigerian Army Infantry Corps Conference in Jaji, Kaduna…yesterday. The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt.-Gen. Tukur Yusuf Buratai, has said that the Nigerian Army will deploy maximum intelligence to tackle the scourge of banditry and terrorism ravaging the nation. The COAS described the fight against terrorism as a complex one, adding that the phenomenon requires multiple efforts, including co-operation of all citizens, to combat. Buratai, who stated this yesterday at the opening of the second infantry conference in Jaji Military Cantonment, Kaduna State, said the Nigerian Armed Forces had performed creditably well and would continue to protect the territorial integrity of Nigeria. According to him: “Today, we have the full initiative and in collaboration with other sister-agencies, we are pushing hard to ensure that we finally sanitise the northern Borno and our border axis with Niger, Chad and Cameroun.” “We know they (criminals) have plans but we are also planning to counter them and we will deploy maximum intelligence to capture those that are still in the hinterland. “Terrorism is a complex warfare which needs the involvement of every individual in the country which if we are able to do, will contain the criminals.” Earlier, Commander, Infantry Corps, Maj.-Gen. Stevenson Olusegun Olabanji, said: “The nation is currently grappling with a lot of security challenges with scourge of terrorism in the North East being the most prominent. Meanwhile, the member representing Kaduna Central Senatorial District at the National Assembly, Shehu Sani, has blamed northern political leaders for the worsening security situation in the North. Sani spoke yesterday while addressing the aggrieved inhabitants of Birnin-Gwari, Chukun and some communities in Zamfara State who brought a protest letter to him over attack by armed bandits for onward submission to the National Assembly. He said that the calamity befalling the region was as a result of the lukewarm attitude of the northern political leaders towards addressing the problem of insecurity. Sani said one of the problems of northern leaders “is sycophancy, which is now making the North to bleed under the security challenges.” In a related vein, the Supreme Council for Shari’a in Nigeria (SCSN) has called on Imams of Jumma’ah mosques to commence (Qunut) special prayers for peace and improved security situation in the country. The council, in a communique issued at the end of its Ramadan meeting, signed by its Secretary-General, Nafiu Baba Ahmad, urged the Federal Government to review its current security strategy in the country. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .