The deceased, Rtn. Eyitayo King and Rtn. Alamu Olabode at the District Training Assembly in Lagos on Saturday. Two persons were on Saturday evening confirmed dead in an accident involving a Volvo SUV and a Mack truck around Danco filling station on Lagos-Ibadan expressway. The deceased, Alamu Olabode and Engr. Eyitayo King were members of the Rotary Club of Abeokuta, who were returning from the District Training Assembly held on Friday and Saturday at the Golden Tulip Hotel, in FESTAC, Lagos State. Mr. Babatunde Akinbiyi, Spokesperson, Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps, confirmed the incident to newsmen in Abeokuta. Akinbiyi explained that the accident occurred at about 6:11p.m., saying that the SUV, with registration number SGM 858 AA, which was on top speed, lost control and rammed into the stationary truck marked MUS 762 XD. “The two occupants (male) in the Volvo SUV died on the spot, even though it took the TRACE, FRSC and police team some time to retrieve their bodies because it was already trapped,” he said. The TRACE spokesperson added that the bodies of the dead had been deposited at the morgue of Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital, Sagamu. Reacting yesterday, the District Governor, Rotary International, District 9110, Rtn. Kola Sodipo, commiserated with the families of the two Rotarians, Rtn. Alamu Olabode and Rtn. Eyitayo King, Secretary-Elect and Club Admin-Elect respectively, who were returning from the all important training for the incoming Rotary leaders in the 2019/2020 Rotary year beginning in June. “We pray that Almighty God grant the families of the deceased, Rotary Club of Abeokuta and RI District 9110, the courage and fortitude to bear the losses and grant our late Rotarians eternal rest. Service to humanity is the best work of life,” Sodipo said. The body of Rtn. Alamu was conveyed to Iwo, Osun State yesterday for burial according to Muslim rites, while Rtn. Eyitayo will be buried today. Family of Rtn. Eyitayo will be at the Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital, Sagamu by 11a.m. today to retrieve his body and proceed to the burial ground for funeral rites. Another Rotarian, Demola Olutusin, described the deceased as worthy compatriots on his Facebook page. “They were indeed very diligent and full of life as I was told that they always find space to add value whenever called upon. Compatriots, for as long as their will be memory, both of you will live on in our hearts. You both are a good example of what service to humanity is all about.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .