 [FILE PHOTO] Gov. Abdulaziz Yari of Zamfara  To that end, it could be said that Yari, a prince, is a man of peace. By education and training he is a typist, not minding that his course of study was secretarial studies and later public administration.  In 2003 he became ANPP state chairman, from where he was catapulted to the position of national financial secretary, only to be elected subsequently to represent Anka/Talata Mafara Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives.
  
It was from the House of Representatives that the man from Talata Mafara returned to become Zamfara State governor, after dethroning his father-in-law, Aliu Shinkafi in 2011. It is obvious that Governor Yari has not rested from 1999 till date, because he has never allowed any election cycle to pass him by without being on the ballot.
 
It was perhaps on account of his ascension to the seat of governor from the federal legislature that Yari continued to wage domestic political battle against the senator representing Zamfara Central in the Senate, Senator Kabiru Garba Marafa, from walking a similar path to the governorship seat. Since 2015 when Yari won his second term mandate, he has not known peace because, if it is not Senator Marafa standing up in the Red Chamber to point out the perceived ineptitude of the governor, cattle rustlers and criminal bandits would be levying death and despoliation on the citizens he presides over.  So, feeling that the seat of governorship has become hot by Senator Marafa’s constant meddling, and the state made ungovernable by the untoward acts of violent gangs, the governor found Abuja a welcome, safe haven.
 
At least, he seemed to justify his choice of Abuja as his base by the fact that as the NGF chairman, he ought to be at the federal capital, where he could not only be easily accessed by brother governors, but also enjoy some peace and quiet from the deafening din of murderous confusion in Gusau and neighbouring communities.  
 
Yet when the heat of public commentaries on the state of anomie in Zamfara increased, just as some well-to-do natives decided to emulate their governor by withdrawing to Sokoto, Katsina or Abuja, Governor Yari demonstrated his frustration in a sarcastic mode by relinquishing the office of Chief Security Officer of Zamfara State.
 
That obvious escapist approach seemed to be Yari’s only way of condemning the apparent stupidity of public intellectuals, who instead of blaming the mistake of the nation on the nebulous and malicious constitution are fixated on bashing the governor. Also, as chairman of NGF, he decided to sulk metaphorical against a federal structure that places virtually every aspect of governance on the table of an aloof president, thereby compounding the troubles of state governors, whose financial umbilical cords and political apron strings are tied to Abuja.  The one to the left, who happened to be a broadcast journalist, taunted the outgoing governor for his former offer to quit as governor if state of emergency would restore peace and order in Zamfara. 
  
She recalled how the governor pledged to quit office after resigning as the Chief Security Officer, saying, “I don’t know what he is still doing in office; he doesn’t care.”  In Yari’s political odyssey, we find that apart from politics, he has not plied his trade anywhere else. And presenting a placid disposition and vacant facial expression, most political godfathers and even the voters found him attractive to invest their votes and hope.
  
From the latest expletives, which the Zamfara governor has been forced to endure, it could be deduced that if the leader of state governors in Nigeria has been described as useless and hopeless, it could be concluded that the NGF is made of such persons.
  
And remembering also that Yari’s colleague and chairman of Progressive Governors’ Forum had coined and introduced a new word into the country’s political lexicon known as iberiberism, it would be a source of consolation to Governor Abdul’aziz Yari that he is not alone in the manifestation of iberibeist tendencies in governing Zamfara State.
  
In Yari, we learn that success in politics or electoral triumphs does not translate to magical moments in mandate delivery or governance. Even in exile one can be haunted by one’s failures and failings.
  
Those are the twin burdens Governor Yari will carry to the 9th Senate, because the protest in Abuja has served the dual purpose of sending him forth from governorship seat with ignominy and welcoming him to his new assignment with infamy. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .