 Avocado and Spicy Kilishi Devilled Eggs  Avocado and Spicy Kilishi Devilled Eggs
Avocado and Spicy Kilishi Devilled Eggs is a fantastic, easy to prepare appetizer option for any occasion because they are delicious to taste, creamy and simply irresistible when garnished with spicy Kilishi, every bite is like a party in your mouth. The combination of the avocado and egg yolk is such a beautiful blend of textures. It is also a healthy bite, just as it is delicious. Ingredients
5 eggs 
1 avocado 
Several pieces of Kilishi, chopped into byte sizes
Fresh chopped parsley for garnishing
Yaji (Suya spice) for garnishing
Salt and pepper to taste Preparation
Wash and place eggs in a pot, add some water (about an inch above the eggs). Then cover and let the eggs boil. Optional: Add a teaspoon of vinegar to the water as it can help to prevent eggs from leaking if they do crack while boiling. Adding 1/2 teaspoon of salt to the water may also help prevent the eggs from cracking and it makes the eggs easier to peel. When the eggs have boiled, take it off the cooker and let the eggs sit for 8 – 10 minutes (still covered). Afterwards, transfer the eggs to another bowl with ice cold water, then peel. It is easier to peel eggs under running water. Cut each hardboiled eggs in half; separate the egg yolk from the egg white by gently scooping out the yolk using a small spoon. Transfer the egg yolk to a small bowl while setting the egg whites aside. To make the filling, add in the avocado diced to egg yolks and mash with a fork until well combined. Season with salt and pepper to taste and mix to combine. Using a spoon, an ice cream scoop or a piping bag, fill up each egg white with avocado mixture, top with chopped Kilishi and garnish with fresh parsley. Sprinkle with Yaji (Suya Spice) for the perfect finishing. Tips: Old eggs are easier to peel that new eggs, so for perfect boiled eggs every time, buy eggs in advance and store for at least 4 days before using. To tell if an avocado is ripe; hold the avocado in the palm of your hand and gently squeeze it. If it is a bit soft then it is ripe, if it is too soft to the touch then it is overripe. If it is hard when pressed, then it is not yet ripe. One Pot Egg Wonder
If you are looking for a quick, one pot meal, then this is it. This is a delicious One-Pot of Spicy Eggs and potatoes with tomato sauce. The ingredients in this recipe can be substituted for others; Irish potatoes can be used instead of sweet potatoes. Spinach can be used instead of fluted pumpkin leaves – whatever suits your palate. Ingredients
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
1/2 medium sized onion, chopped
Salt to taste
1/2 cup chicken stock
10 plum tomatoes, chopped or blended
1 Teaspoon Thyme
6 eggs
1 cup diced sweet potatoes 
1 cup fluted pumpkin leaves, chopped finely Instructions
In a pan, heat one tablespoon of vegetable over medium heat. Add the chopped onions and fry until translucent. Add the chicken stock and tomatoes, thyme (taste for salt, if it is not sufficient, add some more) Let it simmer for 10-15 minutes, transfer to a blender and blend until smooth. In a pan, add 1 tablespoon of vegetable oil over medium heat. Add the potatoes and fry the potatoes for a few minutes until browned out the outside. Transfer the blended sauce back to the pot and let it simmer for another 15 minutes to cook the potatoes. Add the vegetable to the sauce and stir it in. In a bowl crack eggs but do not whisk together. Using a spatula, make little holes for the eggs on top of the sauce. Pour in the eggs directly into the holes created in the sauce and cover. Reduce the heat and leave the cover on, cook the eggs for 10 minutes. Turn off the heat and keep the lid on for 6 more minutes so that the result is medium-soft yolks. Shake the pan lightly to check the doneness of the eggs (if it shakes a lot, then it is most likely not cooked thoroughly).