Olamide Though the publicity for the event was masive, it wasn’t excatly clear what Nigerian Brewery, through it’s Goldberg brand, had in the offing for guests, who turned up for the big announcemment at the Radisson Blu Lagos Hotel, Ikeja. However, knowing the organisation and their penchant for intrigue and suspense, it was obvious something big was on the card. Originally scheduled for 2pm, the event didn’t take off until at about 4pm. But while the long wait lasted, the DJ treated guests to the best of naija hits, while the bar and buffet stand were thrown wide open for early birds; there were no dull moments. Eventually, the stage came alive with OAP Do2tun of Cool FM, who anchored the event. Few minutes of rundown of programme for the evening, the live band seized the stage and treated guests to some soothing African beats that set the tone for the evening. It was indeed a pure exhibition of rich Yoruba mic culture. Though some top officials of the brand, including it Brand Ambassador and Nollywood actor Odunlade Adekola got slots to interact with the audience, none of them revealed the exact reason for the fun-filled evening; it was all part of the package. At last, to the sound of drums, tradirtional chants by the cuktural troupe and fireworks, music sensation, Olamide was unveiled as the new brand ambassador for Goldberg Lager. It was cheers all the way as the hitmaker emerged from back stage to the delight of guests, who had waited for the hour to come. The announcement marked the beginning of a new era for the brand, as it now seeks to appeal to people, who celebrate tradition and culture as its way of shaping the future. Indeed, Olamide is a perfect example of this, as he is industrious, traditional, open minded and outgoing making him a perfect fit for the brand. Since his emergence in the music industry, he has remained one of the most sought after Nigerian entertainers, all whilst remaining authentic and true to his roots. As part of the unveil, Olamide also headlined his first concert of 2019 themed The Takeover on the same day. Staged at the Open Ground of Ikeja City Mall, the concert, which is a special edition of the experiential platform by Goldberg called Unlimited Faaji, featured Olamide alongside other musical acts such as Zlatan Ibile and Mayorkun, while Dj Kaywise was on the wheels of steel. Hosted by fellow brand ambassador, Odunlade Adekola, the concert saw thousands of beer lovers and residents take to the Ikeja City Mall for the groundbreaking event. With the new agreement, Olamide joins actor, Odunlade Adekola, on the brand’s portfolio as the brand eludes to big plans in the coming months. Speaking on the announcement, the Portfolio Manager, Omotunde Adenusi said. “We’re excited to welcome Olamide to the family, as we look to the big plans we have for the rest of the year. Goldberg is using this announcement to give its consumers a taste of what is to come in the coming months even as we re-establish its role in bringing its consumers closer to their roots yet keeping them in touch with the trends.” Over the years, Goldberg has consistently pushed the bar in excellence, continually providing fans and consumers with remarkable enjoyable experiences that dial up the culture and traditions of the people, whilst also appreciating modern social conventions. This perfect blend of both worlds has made the brand one of the most authentic consumer brands in the country. Born March 15, 1989, in Bariga, Lagos State, Olamide Adedeji attended both primary and high schools in Lagos, but for his tertiary education, he attended Tai Solarin University of Education where he studied Mass Communication. Professional music career for the talented singer began in 2010 with the release of his first single Eni Duro released under the Coded Tunes record label, which Olamide was signed unto at the time. The song received wide critical acclaim and instantly shot him to limelight. In 2011, he released his first album titled Rapsodi in which he featured several top Nigerian artistes such as ID Cabasa, Wizkid, Dbanj, Reminisce and 9ice. It’s needless to say that the album was a huge success. However, Olamide didn’t rest on his oars after the success of his first album. In 2012, he went on to release another album titled YBNL, which had several hit like First of All, Voice of the street, Ilefo Iluminati, Stupid love, Durosoke and Owotabua. The album, which featured top Nigerian artistes like Tiwa Savage, Dammy Krane, Kayswitch, Samklef, Davido and a couple of up and coming artistes, was well received. Another album titled Baddest Guy Ever Liveth was released in 2013, which featured hit singles like Anifowose, Story for the Gods and Yemi my Lover and in 2014, he released Street OT, in which he featured Don Jazzy for Skelemba and Viktoh for Up in the Club. 