In the spirit of Easter, Chief Executive Officer, Sonai Global Services Limited and founder of SG Elite Empowerment Foundation, Nneamaka Anyanwu has continued her search for basketball champions among underprivileged girls between seven to 18 years. Anyanwu, who is also a basketball coach, has trained 60 girls and feted not less than 100 persons in Living Fountain Orphanage, Oniru and Sought After Children Orphanage, Ajah, Lagos. Speaking with The Guardian, Anyanwu said, “this is our Easter classic, and also a period we really want to empower girls through basketball, life skills, community service.“We are giving out to orphans, we are kicking off the maiden edition of our community service by feeding 100 persons… it’s all about giving back to our community, teaching the girls that they can use their hands, can use the little they have to enrich the community and also teaching basket ball skill and motivating them that they can exceed in the classroom, on the field and as human beings. “I started the foundation last year: I’ve been in the NGO sector for more than seven years and I worked with various NGO in New York and also here in Nigeria.”Explaining her experience, which prepared her for community service, Anyanwu said, “I played in high school… I had a very outstanding career in high school and that led to my getting a full scholarship to the university. “That lasted a year before I was picked to play for Cornell where I had two amazing seasons. I was blessed enough to have the opportunity to play on scholarship, which is a lot, and after that, I got into coaching.“I coached Sheepshead Bay High School boys in Brooklyn, New York and I am here doing this, empowering youths through the game of basketball.” On her programme with the two orphanages, she said, “in the organisation values, there is life skills education, basketball and there is community service. This is my first time and I have been able to include community service, which is where I really wanted to start out by giving back to the community. “It is the Easter period, a period of love and our idea is to share that love. The orphanages had a list of things they needed and we are giving them that. We appreciate Coca-Cola for supporting us by giving us drinks.”Anyanwu said she plans to seek help for community service providers multiple times yearly, adding, however, “it takes a lot of money and manpower, so, I need support, apart from the one I got from friends and family.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .