 Tonye Cole. Photo/Twitter/TonyeCole1  The APC’s self-inflicted crisis due to its failure to adhere to the tenets of internal democracy flagrant disobedient to court orders, denied it the privilege of participating in the 2019 general elections in Rivers State. Even with the conclusion of the general election, the party’s gubernatorial “candidates,” Tonye Cole and Senator Magnus Abe, were hopeful that the Supreme Court (which had on 12 February 2019, upheld the verdict of Justice Chiwendu Worgu of the Rivers State High Court, nullified the May 2018 APC ward, local council, state congresses, as well last August primaries) would reverse itself and declare that the APC ought to have been on the ballot. Had this been the case, it would have had a massive impact on the state, as a fresh election would have been ordered. The prospect of that really kept the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on the edge. APC legal odyssey started in May 2018 when Justice Worgu granted an order restraining it from proceeding with its ward, local council and state congresses, following a suit filed by 23 pro-Abe supporters, who despite paying for nomination forms to participate in the ward congress, were schemed out of the process. In sheer defiance of the court’s restraining order, the Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Amaechi, proceeded to organise the congresses, prompting the court, which considered this a bare-faced affront on the judiciary, to subsequently void the entire congresses and primaries of the party. [FILES] Senator Magnus Abe  After exploring all internal party conflict resolution mechanisms, Abe and 43 others who emerged winners of the parallel direct primaries decided to file a suit at a Federal High Court presided over by Justice Kolawole Omotosho, where they sought to be declared authentic candidates of the party. In January, Justice Omotosho dismissed Abe’s faction suit on the premise that their primaries was not monitored by the National Working Committee of the party. The court also relied on the judgment of Justice Nwogu, which nullified the ward, local council, state and primaries to issue a mandatory injunction restraining INEC from including the Cole’s faction on the ballot for the 2019 polls. As the general election approached, both factions of the party respectively approached the Court of Appeal in Port Harcourt to seek for a stay of execution of Justice Omotosho’s verdict. The appellate court availed them their prayers. On February 21, Justice Betrus Sanga of the Court of Appeal in Port Harcourt struck out Abe and others’ case challenging a Federal High Court’s verdict that declared its direct primaries flawed. Similarly, on March 1, a Court of Appeal panel led by Justice Ibrahim Gummel, struck out an appeal filed by Cole and others challenging the judgment of Justice Omotosho of the Federal High Court. The polarisation in the APC reached a historic level when Abe, Cole and others proceeded to the Supreme Court with a Damocles sword hanging above their heads. Last Tuesday, after a protracted legal tussle, the Supreme Court struck out Abe and others’ suit seeking it to make a pronouncement on the propriety of the direct primary elections conducted by the APC in the state for the nomination of its candidates for the 2019 general elections. In same vein, the Supreme Court last Thursday also struck out the consolidated appeals of APC and Tonye Cole challenging their exclusion from the general election for lacking in merit. Senator Abe in his reaction said he remained grateful to the judiciary for availing the aggrieved members of the party in the state the platform to challenge the injustice and impunity by the leadership of the APC in the state. According to him, it was a thing of joy that through the judiciary, impunity and injustice within the party could be challenged. “We are grateful to the judiciary for the opportunity offered myself and other law-abiding members of the APC to challenge the injustice and fraud perpetrated by the leadership of the party in Rivers State,” he said. [FILES] Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi  While expressing the mood of his faction, Abe vowed to remain a committed member of the APC, and advised his faction to remain resolute in their commitment to enthroning internal democracy in the party. “We will continue our struggle for internal democracy and for effective inclusion within the All Progressives Congress because that is the way you win elections. The issue of the party being off the ballot is really unfortunate, it was not what anybody would have desired. But everybody in Rivers State understands that the crisis in the APC would only benefit Nyesom Wike. Everybody knew that. The minister knew that. I knew that. Chidi Lloyd knew that. So, anybody who pretends that he did not know that the situation we had in the APC would benefit the opposition is not being truthful, and the person is not a honest being. “And so we need to actually be able to look each other in the eyes and tell one another the truth and act in such a manner that only truth will help us to overcome our present challenges,” he said. In what has become a trait, the opposition APC faction attempted to vent its anger on the other party in order to detract from its own failings and the inherent contradictions that plunged the party into despair. A pro-Cole group, the Rivers Unity House, recently took a swipe at Senator Abe, accusing him of working in conjunction with elements outside the party to destroy the party. “Senator Magnus Abe long ago decided to swim against the tide in a futile attempt to become the governor of Rivers State against the advice given to him from the leadership of his party in the state. Today, that dream has gone up in smoke, but instead of accepting what his actions has brought him, he has gone on to assume that his joy ride was cut short by the Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, in connivance with the Supreme Court.” It remains to be seen in the days ahead whether concerned APC members could collectively to come together to address the deep-seated trauma caused by the internal strife that culminated in the exclusion of the party from the 2019 polls. Spokesperson to the Tonye Cole Campaign Organisation, Ogbonna Nwuke, while dousing the flames of division that has seen the two faction pull apart to distances never seen before in Rivers politics, said the doors of reconciliation is open now that the law has taken its course. “I think the doors for reconciliation has remained quite open. Efforts have been made at reconciliation. Somehow, that has not yielded the desired fruit. But in the light of what has happened, to forgive is something to do. We will watch and see. It is too early to say whether there will be reconciliation or not. But the truth is some grave injustice has been done and the party has become the victim. You can imagine a man who denied his party ticket saying he is a hero of democracy. But peace is the best offer. Let us see, the doors are not closed. There are chances that rationale minds will get to work. But what shape it will take is something no one can easily predict at this point. Reconciliation is an option. It has always been on the table,” he said. But for Mr. Friday Kennedy, a staunch Abe loyalist, reconciliation within the APC shall only become a reality if the forces that have fueled the widening gap between the two factions are prepared for genuine peace and adherence to the tenets of internal democracy. “It is Amaechi that will say that reconciliation needs to take place. We have always been prepared for reconciliation from day one. One faction of the party cannot win the state whether you like it or not. You need the whole structure of the party. Amaechi could not do it alone that was why he joined Biokpomabo Awara. Our own faction did not join them and they could not make an impression in the governorship election. We have always maintained from the beginning that the crisis was unnecessary and that we need to reconcile, but Amaechi wants to prove a point that he can do without anybody,” he said. There is no doubt that the exclusion of the APC from the 2019 general elections in the state shocked all party members, no matter what their political persuasion was. While the disputed congresses and primaries helped to reinforce the deep divisions in the party, the failure of the national leadership of the party to swiftly call the two contending sides to order on time caused the polarisation that ensued to reach its peak. Governor Wike, who ultimately benefited from the inanity of APC in the state has commended their courage to fight within the confines of the law to the end. And now that the legal battle is over, he said the task of building the state must take precedence over all other considerations. Wike urged the APC and the Amaechi to join hands with his administration to move the state forward, adding that they cannot as leaders continue to remain divided and expect government to deliver on its responsibilities to the people. The governor stated that with last week’s Supreme Court judgments, particularly the one that struck out the consolidated appeals of the APC and Tonye Cole for lacking in merit, PDP’s victory in the just concluded general election remains intact.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .