Manchester United travel to Nou Camp seeking to overturn a goal deficit against Barcelona in the UEFA Champions League tonight by 8pm. Will the heroics in the dramatic second leg win against Paris Saint Germain provide enough inspiration against a Lionel Messi-led Barcelona? Manchester United manager, Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, has said the memory from the Paris Saint Germain will help the players. “It will help us as a team to try and turn things around. “We know Barcelona at the Nou Camp is a difficult prospect, but the memory from that night will live with the players. It’s not that long ago and we are one goal better off.” Admittedly, it was a different Manchester United at the Parc des Princes, full of verve and conviction accompanied with the extra dash of luck. Perhaps, it all just lines up perfectly for them, hard and fast breaks rewarded with goals and Chris Smalling playing out of his skin to keep Messi and Luis Suarez at bay. There’s speed to burn for Marcus Rashford, Anthony Martial and Jesse Lingard while Romelu Lukaku’s physicality could come in hand. The perfect smash and grab. It does sound tenuous when you note Messi is well rested for the tie, Suarez is sharp in front of goal again and
Barcelona have lost only once at the Camp Nou in the Champions League knockout stages in the last 12 years. Barcelona is a far different proposition to PSG. PSG was without Neymar in the second leg and the French Champions have a propensity for bottling such situations. They fumbled a hefty 4-0 lead against Barcelona in 2017 to lose 6-1 in the second leg. It would take more than the memory of the PSG game to overturn the deficit at the impressive and vociferous Camp Nou. Barcelona are seasoned and are probably one of the best teams in handling an away lead. They will be comfortable in front of their home fans with their captain Messi leading them. Though not overly comfortable, knowing they are only one goal ahead. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .