 Man of the match, Abuja Pakistani’s Hashim Mohammad (right) receiving his prizes from Saad Seddique after his team’s victory over Club Cricket Abuja Panthers in the Iris Smart Technologies League…at the weekend.  Having won the toss, the Abuja Pakistanis chose to field first and put the CCA Panthers in to bat. It turned out to be a poor outing for the CCA Panthers’ batsmen as they crumbled very fast in the opening order. The stabilizing role played by Mr. Regi George in the week four win over the Abuja Indians Cricket Club could not be replicated as well as the explosive performance of Pankaj Thiara was nowhere to be found. In 18.5 Overs, the CCA Panthers were only able to put up 91 runs for the loss of 10 wickets, thus putting an end to the first innings.In the second innings, the bowling combinations and strategy of the CCA Panthers failed to hold back the hitting prowess of the Abuja Pakistanis opening order batsmen, as Hashim Mohammad, Ishua Joseph and Michael Danish took them to victory with their combined efforts. Hashim Mohammed was, however, bowled out after he had scored 28 runs off 25 balls. He also bowled four wickets to make him Man of the Match. Joseph Ishua and Michael Danish scored 37 runs and 10 runs respectively. The APCC played 93 runs in 12.1 Overs for the loss of one wicket. As Man of the Match, Hashim Mohammad was, is usual in this competition, presented with a trophy and N5.000 by Iris Smart Technologies and a 25 kg bag of Rice by Olam Rice. By this victory APCC are clearly into the final match scheduled for April 28 after their week six game against Abuja Indians CC on April 14, 2019.In the second game of the day, the Aso Rock Cricket Club (ARCC), who lost all of their past four games in the League, rebounded against Abuja Indians Cricket Club (AICC). They defeated the Abuja Indians Cricket Club in a well-contested game. The ARCC had earlier won the toss and elected to bat. ARCC had a wobbly start but a 60 runs combination between Musa Bodie and Talabi Obafemi pushed the ARCC side to a 116 runs, which was an impossible target for the AICC to chase. The AICC came in the second innings to chase 116 runs and needed 117 runs to win, they chased with everything they had but they could only achieve 82 in 20 overs for the loss of eight wickets. The last group matches of the league will hold on Sunday with Abuja Pakistanis meeting Abuja Indians by 8.30 a.m. This would be followed by the game between ARCC and the CCA Panthers.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .