 MIAMI GARDENS, FLORIDA – MARCH 31: Roger Federer of Switzerland in celebrates with the winners trophy against John Isner of USA in the final during day fourteen of the Miami Open tennis on March 31, 2019 in Miami Gardens, Florida.   Julian Finney/Getty Images/AFP  The debutant at the event, however, was Canada’s 18-year old Felix Auger-Aliassime, who played his way from the qualifying round for an impressive run to the semi-finals. Following Austrian, Dominic Thiem’s title victory over Federer in Indian Wells Masters and Denis Shapovalov’s semi-final showing in Miami, the next generation players are now stamping their presence in the big tournaments. Isner had served his way through six matches, winning tie breakers sets in all but one. Before the final match, Federer expressed concerns about the Isner serve. At the onset of the final match, however, Isner’s weapon did not register and he lost his serve in the opening game of the first set. Feeder held his serves and took the set 6-1 in 25 minutes. The second set saw resurgence by the lanky American. Each player held serve and Isner delivered two aces to level four-all. In the ninth game, Isner missed a backhand shot and immediately limped to the side gripping his left foot. Federer held routinely. Serving in the 10th game, Isner faced two match points at 15-40. He saved one. On the second, a long rally ended in a ball that landed deep to Federer’s right side. The Swiss star raised his hand in a challenge and the replay showed the ball landed out. He had won the tournament. Federer had defeated South Africa’s Kevin Anderson 6/0, 6/4 in the quarterfinals and prevailed in the semifinals 6/2, 6/4 in the first career match with Canada’s Denis Shapovalov. Isner defeated Djokovic’s conqueror, Spain’s Roberto Bautista Agut 7/6 (5), 7/6 (5) in the quarter-finals and Felix Auger-Aliassime 7/6(3), 7/6(4) in the semifinals when the American hammered 21 aces. Djokovic retains the number one ranking followed by Nadal, Zverev. Federer moved up to fourth and leads in the yearly race to the end of season finals in London, followed by Djokovic, Nadal, Tsitsipas, Thiem, Isner, Monfils and Medvedev. Felix Auger-Aliassime moved up 24 slots to number 33 in the world. Henceforth, the Canadian would not have to play qualifying round at any major tournament.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .