 Fun-seekers at the JJT Park yesterday.								PHOTOS: ISAAC TAIWO  Lagosians of all ages were seen catching their fun, and entertaining themselves with foods and drinks. One of the fun-seekers, Miss Vallery Alassan, said the holiday is a moment to spend time with friends. “I have been looking forward to this season. It’s a period to have nice time with friends and relations. I have been to this place on several occasions and I must confess, it is getting better over time.” Another picnicker, Comrade Achone, said such periods of holidays is a rare opportunity to wind down and let off some stress of living in Lagos. “The whole family has been to some places before coming here and we are still contemplating reaching other fun sites before going home. This is the third park we have been to today. “Despite the state of the economy, we still have to create the time for our kids to have fun. It is not their making that we are in this situation in the country but they should not be made to suffer excitements on such holiday periods. If things continue like this, the future looks bleak for them but we have to keep hope alive that one day, it will be better,” he said. Friday Ziku, an artist, described the serene environment as good for the health. “I was looking forward to the break so I can get deserved rest from the stress of work. Coming to the park is perfect for me to appreciate nature and the environment. It is so good for the soul,” he said. Qudus Awotayo, a first time visitor, noted that he was impressed with the park. “This is my first time of coming to the park and I must confess, I am really impressed with the environment. I will definitely visit this place regularly as I want to experience more fun,” he said. An official of the park, who pleaded anonymity because he was not authorised to speak, said the park has been attracting hundreds of fun-seekers daily. “The large turnout of people in this park is a daily occurrence because it is clean, secured and of high standard. We intend to keep it this way, to maintain our standard and increase patronage,” the official said. On Saturday, as part of the state government’s commitment to improving the social life of the citizenry by connecting them with opportunities inherent in contemporary recreation and digital networking, the Lagos State Parks and Gardens Agency (LASPARK) organised a social concert in commemoration of Easter. According to a statement by the General Manager of LASPARK, Mrs. Bilikiss Adebiyi-Abiola, the programme was meant to bring together private citizens from all walks of life in a tranquil environment to have a fun-filled Easter celebration, share knowledge through digital games and network towards a resourceful society. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .