 Ibifaa Victor-Thompson  In the same way, let your light shine before men, that they may see your good deeds and praise your father in heaven (Mathew 5:16, NIV)We are admonished to use our tongue to bring glory and honour to our father in heaven. How do we do that? First His Word must dwell in our hearts and we must meditate in it always by obeying what the Word of God says to us (James 1:22). Secondly, we must present our bodies daily as a living sacrifice (Romans 12:1-2). Thirdly, we must be ready to obey the instructions and leading of the Holy Spirit (Romans 8:14). Fourthly, we must study His Word and be willing to teach others (2 Timothy 2:1-22). Fifthly, we must be engrafted into the vine (Jesus Christ) as the branch, without Him we can do nothing since he is our source (John 15). By my little walk with humans I have come to realise that the tongue has played major role in relationships between: husbands and wives, parents and children, in-laws and spouses, government and citizens, Church leaders and brethren, etc. either good or bad all are centred on the tongue. The end result of the tongue when used wisely or foolishly:
At that time Joshua pronounced this solemn oath: “Cursed before the LORD is the man who undertakes to rebuild this city, Jericho: “At the cost of his firstborn son will he lay its foundations; at the cost of his youngest will he set up its gates.” So the LORD was with Joshua, and his fame spread throughout the land (Joshua 6:26 – 27, NIV). Joshua in the above Scriptures with the excitement of victory over Jericho, which God has given him, not knowing that the land belongs to them made a pronouncement (used the tongue) that cursed is the man who will rebuild the city of Jericho: the effect of those words is that; the person will lay the foundations with he losing his son. Secondly, when the gates will be made it will cost him losing his youngest son. The Scripture below shows the confirmation of the words spoken by Joshua after a long period of time. In Ahab’s time, Hiel of Bethel rebuilt Jericho. He laid its foundations at the cost of his firstborn son Abiram, and he set up its gates at the cost of his youngest son Segub, in accordance with the word of the LORD spoken by Joshua son of Nun (1 Kings 16:34). Hiel of Bethel in his zeal to rebuild Jericho never knew that the land had been cursed by Joshua the servant of God. In rebuilding the city of Jericho it cost him his first son and youngest son. Only when it has happened that it was recalled that the land carry a curse. Beloved before you embark on anything please seek the face of God for that which you want to do or occupy. Join me to pray earnestly this prayer: My Father, My Father, grant me sensitivity to hear your voice and by the leading of the Holy Spirit to take the right decision in that which I do in Jesus Name – Amen. Even when Hiel of Bethel has rebuilt the city of Jericho that cost him the lives of his two sons, the land was still barren.And the men of the city said unto Elisha, Behold, I pray thee, the situation of this city is pleasant, as my Lord seeth: but the water is naught, and the ground barren. And he said, Bring me a new cruse, and put salt therein. And they brought it to him. And he went forth unto the spring of the waters, and cast the salt in there, and said. Thus saith the LORD, I have healed these waters; there shall not be from thence any more death or barren land. So the waters were healed unto this day, according to the saying of Elisha which he spake (2 Kings 2:19 – 22).
Above all let us always be connected daily to the vine (Jesus Christ) our source, for without Him we can do nothing, agape!!!
Pastor Ibifaa Victor-Thompson
Contacts: +2348036759583, +2348028954896, +23484667916.
Email: kingdomvisionassembly@yahoo.com, pastoribifaa@yahoo.com
Church Name: Kingdom Vision Assembly. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .