 Buhari  He specifically mandated the military, police and other security agencies to rout the bandits terrorising Zamfara, Katsina and Kaduna states. The president spoke through Governor Aminu Bello Masari of Katsina, who in company of security heads in the state, visited Yar Santa and Tsamiyar Jino villages in Kankara Local Council of the state to condole with the people over the recent terrorist attacks on their communities. In a statement by the governor’s spokesman, Abdu Labaran, the president, while condemning the activities of the bandits, observed: “The situation was unacceptable and government is willing, ready and adequately prepared to deal with it, and will not spare anybody, regardless of their position, found to be complicit in the activities of the criminals. “We will not hesitate to deal appropriately with anyone found to be connected, or in anyway involved, in the activities of the bandits.” He said peace and normalcy must return to the areas affected by kidnapping and armed banditry, “as securing the lives and properties of citizens is the sole raison’ d’etre of government, and failure to do that is tantamount to shirking the responsibility of the oath of office. “Rest assured that government will not abandon you in your hour of need, because we will take the fight to the bandits where ever they may be.” Buhari expressed confidence that with the renewed determination of government and the commitment of the security agencies, “it was only a matter of time before the activities of the bandits are successfully contained, the same way the Boko Haram insurgency has been contained.” He revealed that security had been beefed up in the affected settlements to restore normalcy. Reminding residents that security was everybody’s business, the nation’s number one citizen added: “Security and the maintenance of law and order are beyond the capacity of the men and officers of the security agencies. Therefore, there is the need for everyone, especially leaders in the society, to contribute towards ensuring the safety and security of their respective environment.” He also enjoined the public to volunteer useful information that could help security personnel discharge their responsibilities satisfactorily. The president pledged that his administration would continue to interface with relevant stakeholders to find lasting peace. However, the National Inter-Faith and Religious Organisations for Peace (NIFROP) has offered solution to the security threats besetting parts of the federation. According to the group, fervent prayer and fasting remained the only panacea to the nagging menace. Addressing a press conference yesterday in Abuja, the organisation, through one of its leaders, Bishop Prince Jacob Madaki, also warned clerics, who covertly or overtly promote ethnic rife and hate sermons to desist forthwith, as the action would not do the nation any good. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .