Nigerian eccentric media personality Denrele Edun has taken to social media to recall a story from the time he was struggling to make it as a model. The award-winning star who is known for his unconventional ways shared his story of resilience and told of how he went after designers, begging to model for them. According to him, he was mocked and ridiculed by some while other our=trightly rejected him telling him he didn’t have what it takes. Several years later and he is now one of the most sought after model and media personality who has made it multiple times to the cover of several magazines. Read what he wrote below: 1999. Shola Creative Studios, SuruLere.
An (Androgynous) Male Model has to be psychologically strong; there’s a lot of rejection!
In the spirit of FashionWeek, allow me dig out my dusty portfolios and throwback my first ever professional modeling shot!
Despite the disgusted looks from passers by, I walked with my defiant confidence to the local bus-stop to board a Molue that’ll take me to another designer’s showroom.
I had developed a knack for appearing at Fashion Designer showrooms and their houses to present my pictures and my overwhelming personality. All in a bid to convince them to walk in their shows.
Mind you; I was the shortest, skinniest male model at that time, but that didn’t deter me. The Hustle was real!
I got to a designer’s house and saw a cluster of top models. They all burst into laughter when I walked past but then, who cared? Sighting a familiar face, I ran up to her and was told fittings had begun. In my usual bravado, i saw the designer and walked up to him. 
Moment i introduced myself and my intentions, he stared me down and asked,
“Are you a Refugee?”.
“No Sir, but I’m the model with a unique look who’ll love to walk for u,” I threw back confidently. 
He looked me up and down and said, “You can never walk on my runway. You look like a malnourished Somalian refugee”, and with that he faced his tailors and continued giving directives. “I’ll wait in d Showroom Sir, till u’r ready to fit me”, I answered back and walked in to the reception.  This designer actually hissed and went in. Came out, dismissed all the other models without me noticing and left the building. 
With all d bravado I could muster, I waited for an agonizing 12 hours. I was scared to go get something to eat because I didn’t want to miss his entrance. 
At bout 11pm, he strolled in wit some other models. They obviously had finished a shoot and he seemed to be in a light mood. Seeing my chance, I walked up to him.  This time, he lost his cool. But that didnt stop me from walking his show weeks after. He refused to pay me and not only was I stranded but had to walk from V/I to Yaba wher Vigilantes made me frog jump on the express! The Designer? We’re friends till date! Why? Denrele get clean mind!”