 Pastor Lazarus Muoka  Many believers are suffering, afflicted or under serious torment by the evil because they do not do God’s Will and worst of all may not make heaven at last. Although some of them hear the word of God, preach the word of God but still live in sin. So, instead of having prosperity, they are suffering. If this class of people could put to practice the gospel being preached to them, they would definitely prosper because the Eye of The Almighty is upon the righteous and His Ears are open to hear their prayers and have their desires granted. Every believer should take seriously the injunction of God to do His Will. That was why the theme of the first open evangelical meeting of our ministry at inception was ‘Do The Will Of God And Prosper.’ From that time, we have been labouring to do the Will of God and the reward could be seen in the tremendous exploits we have made in expanding the Kingdom of God, just because the foundation is laid on doing His Will. Truly, God is taking us everywhere and doing a lot with us. All the members of the body of Christ should understand that our conquering the world for Christ will be seamless, if we do God’s Will. Most of the difficult challenges we meet in our Christian duties stem from our reluctance to do God’s Will. There is no doubt that God is mindful of His people, which is the more reason He said to the righteous it shall be well for them. He does not wish evil to the righteous; rather, He is always looking for channels to fight for them, bless, and cause them to repent. If you quote or read all the verses in the Bible but are not doing God’s Will, He will not grant your prayers, bless or honour you. But if you do His Will, I’m assuring you that you will see God standing by your side and fighting for you. When you do the will of God, you will be entitled to all things necessary for this present life. So, let us do His Will. Exodus 23:25-27 “And ye shall serve the Lord your God, and he shall bless thy bread, and thy water; and I will take sickness away from the midst of thee. There shall nothing cast their young, nor be barren, in thy land: the number of thy days I will fulfil. I will send my fear before thee, and will destroy all the people to whom thou shalt come, and I will make all thine enemies turn their backs unto thee.” God in the above context has spelt out the terms of our relation with Him. The covenant is that if we serve or do His will, we shall have our food without struggling, our health and the increase of our wealth are assured, our enemies subdued and above all, the prolonging of our lives to old age is guaranteed. God is protective of the righteous. He said touch not my anointed and do my prophet no harm. It is good to do God’s Will in order to earn His protection and blessing. When we do His Will, we shall prosper in Jesus name. 2Chronicle 26:4-6 “And he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord, according to all that his father Amaziah did. And he sought God in the days of Zechariah, who had understanding in the visions of God: and as long as he sought the Lord, God made him to prosper”.If you serve God, He will make you to prosper. God Almighty will bless you and make you a blessing. Beloved, let us who know the name of God do His Will and prosper.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .