Sorinola A gap in stakeholder engagement, as well as inappropriate use of meta description among music content providers, has been identified as some of the challenges Nigeria is facing in her quest to reap optimal results in digital music distribution. This also explains why most Nigerian music creators in particular are not leveraging digital distribution to step into new territories, expand their audience and get the best results from generally marketing their content. This was the consensus of panelists at the second edition of Midem African Forum, held recently at Raddisson Blu, Ikeja, Lagos, which considered the Importance of data in applying new tools and perspectives for music in a digital world. In her submission, Tosin Sorinola, a respected voice and senior executive with Boomplay, an Africa leading music-streaming site, is of the opinion that a lot need to be done in terms of constant engagement across the music distribution channels. Sorinola, who is Global Head of PR and Marketing Manager (West Africa) for Boomplay, spoke on the need to adopt new approaches to be able to engage with stakeholders. “At Boomplay, we are into partnership that will take us to several campuses across Nigeria to have these conversations and catch early the emerging generation of content providers. We can talk about data all we want but there are not enough data scientists out there. When we get all this data, who will analyze them? How do we get insights from data and how do we make use of it? “We need to start doing everything right. What about the end users that buy and stream? A lot of them don’t understand why they have to pay to hear music or why music should be monetised. In my organisation, we held a small conference with content providers to educate them about Meta Data and help understand what we should be doing together as partners in progress to make things better.” In corroboration, Mullings underscored the importance of an accurate Meta Description as a fundamental tool that drives virality of music contents. “Internet algorithms are wired to respond to Meta Descriptions and that is why content providers must perfect the skill.” Moderated by Marketing strategist, Kelvin Orifa, Sorinola was joined on the panel by other experts, including Thibaut Mullings of IDOL South Africa, MTN’s Oye Akindeinde, Bizzle Osikoya and Chidi Okeke. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .