 Immediate-past President, Association of National Accountants of Nigeria (ANAN), Alhaji Shehu Ladan (right); President, Prof. Muhammad Mainoma; and First Vice President, Prof. Benjamin Osisioma, during the investiture of the new president at the Sheraton Hotel and Towers, Abuja.  The immediate-past President of ANAN, Alhaji Shehu Ladan,, who made this known at the 37th yearly general meeting of the association in Abuja, said the body also fulfilled its obligation to Pan African Federation of Accountants (PAFA), Association of Accounting Bodies in West Africa (ABWA), the International Federation for Accounting Education and Research (IAAER) and Extensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL). According to him, these obligations include the payment of membership dues and full active participation in their scheduled programmes. “We maintained cordial relationship with our partners – Institute of Certified Public Accountants (CPA) of Ireland, South Africa Institute of Public Accountants (SAIPA) and Institute of Public Accountants (IPA) Australia,’’ Ladan said. Though the body has fully relocated to its headquarters in Abuja, he recalled that the association commenced the process of relocating the Secretariat from Lagos in line with the membership resolution of April 30, 2004, yearly meetings. Ladan said that the association sustained its quest for the removal of all barriers and discrimination against ANAN members, especially on the issue bordering on placement of ANAN members on Grade Level 10 at the point of entry in the public service and “at the same time upgrading ANAN members below Grade Level 10 to level 10.” “The issue is on the verge of being resolved by the National Council on Establishment (NCE),’’ he said. Meanwhile, ANAN Registrar/Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Nuruddeen Abdullahi, noted that the yearly conference with the theme: “Economic Recovery and Growth: Issues and Options’’, declared opened on October 9, 2018, in Abuja, had 4,000 participants, while 3,339 members were inducted and admitted into ANAN during the year. “Professional Examination A, B, and Conversion were held in January, March and June respectively. 2,988 candidates sat for the final examination (PEB) in May/June 2018. Out of this number, 2,241, representing 75 per cent passed; 504 had reference in one or two subjects, while 57 candidates failed. There were no case of malpractice and as such, the panel did not have to sit,” he said. He noted that during the year under review, 24 new firms were granted practicing licence. “The only pending law suit involving the association is the appeal filed by Mr. Samuel Olumuyiwa Sosanya at the Court of Appeal, against the judgment of the Lagos State High Court in suit Number ID/077GCMW2015. Mr Sosanya had sued ANAN and two of its principal officers.
`
`The court in its judgment delivered on 22nd June, dismissed the suit,’’ the registrar said. Similarly, Ladan said ANAN signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (CITN) in 2018, which will afford members the opportunity to practice taxation unhindered, as well as membership reciprocity and partnership in area of joint professional training. He said that in 2018, names of two members of the association – Dr Al-Mustapha Aliyu and Princess Elemanya Ebila – were forwarded by the association to the Federal Inland Revenue Service to serve as Tax Appeal Commissioners for Abuja an Lagos respectively. To make ANAN branches strong and dynamic, he explained that a Retreat was organised in February 2018 for the Executives of ANAN branches at the Nigerian College of Accountancy, Jos, to achieve more cordial relationship between the branches and the ANAN Secretariat. The accountant said that ANAN did not relent in fostering its relationship with tertiary institutions, adding that the association had commissioned an Accounting Research Centre at Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto. The immediate past president also noted that a book on the History of ANAN is being put together by a committee headed by Prof. Benjamin Osisioma, with the sole mandate of writing a well-researched book on ANAN, while NCA study materials (study packs) were revised with support from IFAC and DFID. Ladan announced that a new e-MCPD platform had been constructed, well enriched with a lot of local contents that were germane to the Nigerian jurisdiction, which also provides for other e-learning programmes, including certification courses in IFRS, IPSAS and Budgeting.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .