 FCMB Group Plc  The 2019 edition of the programme, tagged, “Youth Entrepreneurship and Empowerment Programme (YEEP),” was successfully held across three National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) orientation camps auditoriums in Lagos, Abuja and Benue States. The overall aim of the programme according to the organisers was to mentor youth corps members on practical steps to become successful entrepreneurs in their chosen fields and to also provide career guidance to them. At this year’s event, the founder of Activate Success International Foundation, Ms. Love Idoko, delivered her lecture in Abuja alongside Seyi Adekunle of Vodi Tailors and popular actor cum broadcaster, Uti Nwachukwu. Cerebral actor and author, Femi Jacobs and Apeh Iwodi, an architect cum entrepreneur took charge in Lagos; while Pastor Abel Uloko, a socioprenuer, thought leader and life coach mentored the corps members efficiently in Benue State. The event held simultaneously at the three centers. Idoko while delivering her paper titled “Six Things I Wish Every Youth Knew,” said, youths must endeavour to make the right decisions, have a plan, be their own greatest fan, detoxify their lives, read books and be a good finisher. “Success as an entrepreneur starts with the right decision. You must never underestimate the impact a single decision can have as one wrong move can ruin a career, business or one’s entire life. To be successful, you need to have a plan. No matter where you are in life, you can be successful if you have a plan for action. “You also need to look at your life and evaluate the relationships you keep. Some relationships are energy draining and toxic. If you are serious about your dream, you have to detoxify your life. You must also read books to update your knowledge and remain relevant in your field. Then, how you finish will be remembered longer than how you start. Success is not just about starting something; we need to be consistent to finish what we have started,” she said.
 
As demonstrated in the 2018 edition of the event, the bank will also be giving grants to lucky young entrepreneurs to support their business idea. At the 2018 edition of the event, a total sum of N2.7m was given to the corps members as grants in Lagos, Imo, Benue and Abuja NYSC camps where the event held. Over the years, FCMB has developed various engagement programmes focused on empowering young Nigerians and has given young entrepreneurs including students access to training, funding, mentorship, networking opportunities and jobs. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .