Air Marshal Sadique Baba Abubakar • ‘3,000 widows gets lifeline in TABITHA empowerment programme’
The Chief of Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, has urged officers and airmen engaged in the fight against insurgency to maintain highest level of combat-readiness at all times.According to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), Abubakar made the call yesterday at Yola Air Force Base during Easter lunch with troops of Air Task Force. The CAS, represented by Chief of Policy and Plan at the Force Headquarters, AVM Emmanuel Anebi, lauded the commitment of the troops in the fight against insurgency, urging them not to relent.“I, therefore, enjoin you not to rest on your oars; let us all continue to be vigilant while we celebrate and ensure we maintain the highest level of combat-readiness to guarantee security during the holiday period and beyond. “I am not saying this to ruin the mood of celebration, but to underscore the need to continue to maintain our vigilance at all times.”Meanwhile, the Commander of 153 Base Services Group, Yola, Air Commander Anthony Ndache, who spoke on behalf of the troops, lauded the Chief of Air Staff for his sustained effort in motivating the troops. Ndache reiterated the commitment of the troops to their assigned tasks and loyalty to the Commander-in-Chief, saying: “Let me reassure the CAS of our loyalty to the President and Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces, Muhammadu Buhari. Be rest assured of our commitment to our assigned duties.” In another development, the General Overseer of Spirit and Life Family Bible Church, Mrs. Deborah Godon-Osagiede, has said that no fewer than 3,000 widows who lost their breadwinners to the Boko-Haram insurgency have benefited from TABITHA global empowerment programme of the church. Godon-Osagiede stated this yesterday when members of the Correspondent Chapel of the Nigeria Union of Journalists, Edo Council, visited to congratulate her on the award as the U.S. Congressional 2019 Global Woman of Excellence.
She said the programme currently runs in 19 locations in the six local councils of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT).  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .