 The casket carrying the remains of Otto Warmbier is carried out of Wyoming High School in Wyoming, Ohio on June 22, 2017, following the funeral for Otto Warmbier. Warmbier an American university student who, while visiting North Korea as a tourist in January 2016, was arrested and sentenced to 15 years of hard labor after being accused of stealing a propaganda poster. Warmbier died on June 19, 2017 six days after retuning to the United States in a coma. Paul Vernon / AFP  On Thursday, The Washington Post quoted unidentified sources as saying that a US official was made to sign a pledge to pay $2 million in medical costs before being allowed to fly Warmbier back home from Pyongyang in 2017. The envoy signed the pledge on instructions from Trump, the Post reported. But in a tweet Friday, Trump said: “No money was paid to North Korea for Otto Warmbier, not two Million Dollars, not anything else.” He then wrote, without saying where the quote came from: “President Donald J. Trump is the greatest hostage negotiator that I know of in the history of the United States. 20 hostages, many in impossible circumstances, have been released in last two years. No money was paid.” Cheif (sic) Hostage Negotiator, USA!” Warmbier, a University of Virginia student, was imprisoned after being accused of taking down a propaganda poster in his hotel during a trip to North Korea. Doctors said he suffered severe brain damage while in North Korean detention, fell into a coma and died days after arriving back in the United States. North Korea denied claims by the Warmbier family that he had been tortured, saying he had contracted botulism. A coroner who examined Warmbier’s body said: “We don’t know what happened to him. That’s the bottom line”. Trump has made rapprochement with North Korea one of his signature policies and he has held two summits with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. At their last meeting in Hanoi in February, Trump said he accepted Kim’s claim not to have known what had happened to Warmbier in prison, despite the case being extraordinarily sensitive. “I will take him at his word,” Trump said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .