 Smile office  The firm partnered a reputable Hong Kong-and United-States based company, NUU Mobile (HKG) Limited, to offer international data roaming services to its customers. This affords customers travelling to top destinations in over 85 countries to automatically access data services to send and receive e-mails, download and send business documents and much more. Speaking during the unveiling of the SmileKonnect device, the Chief Marketing Officer (CMO), Abdul Hafeez, said Nigerians formerly had the option of buying the other country’s SIM card or using international roaming rates. “The new SmileKonnect comes with 50GB local data, 1G free international roaming data, 100 per cent data on recharge, free voice minutes and unlimited onnet call with SmileVoice. For the international roaming packages, you get as low as 1GB at $8.33 and 5GB at $55.55. You can also download the app to enjoy private, secured and affordable voice/data rates. “At SmileKonnect, we believe in quality speed and reliability. We are currently operational in 85 countries and hope to widen our reach. With our Smile Voice, customers can make calls outside Nigeria and use the SmileVoice app to connect with friends,” he said. Head of Brands and Communications of the firm, Lotanna Anajemba, noted that Smile would be the first in Africa to partner with NUU Mobiles. “This allows NUU mobile customers travelling into Nigeria from any country would be able to roam on Smile network. The service is also available for Smile customers travelling internationally with the SmileKonnect device. Through the partnership, Smile will be able to empower its growing number of customers to conduct businesses internationally with ease and convenience,” he added. Chairman, Association of Licensed Telecommunications Operators of Nigeria (ALTON), Gbenga Adebayo, lauded efforts of the SmileComs and urged them to keep remain consistent in the upward push of the technology trends in the country. He noted that operating cost is still very high due to the difficult business environment. “Access to funds, investment opportunities and multiple taxations are some of the challenges players in the industry face today. We employ the Nigerian Communication Commissions (NCC) to promptly give the outcome of the floor pricing. This will give a competitive edge to both big and small players in the telcos,” he added. Urging the industry to leverage on the benefits of Over-The-Top (OTT) service, he said, it will help telcos generate better revenues and offer great services. “The time is here where we respond to modern trends and technology with the use of OTT.  The NCC should consider investments for small players to cushion the cost of operations. We are looking at a suitable national roaming easy,” he noted. On multiple taxations, Adebayo said: “We have the amended tax order in 2015 which allow the state to charge businesses but we also need to talk about the cost of service provision per state. Some states are not business friendly. It won’t be fair if we have a floor pricing without considering such states. The state have the right to charge but it’s unfair to give same service rates to all considering the difference. The partnership with NUU Mobile was also premised on attractive data price as customers with the virtual sim technology-driven devices can enjoy Smile data at affordable price. The partnership will also avail Smile customers the Konnect i4GLTE Mifi device as well as the virtual SIM technology cum embedded SIM. This innovation offers the best in class service delivery and will make Smile the first telecommunications company in Nigeria to launch a virtual SIM device. NUU Mobile may be a relatively new name in the Nigerian market but it has under its belt a stellar track record. Its services and Products bespeak convenience and superior technology. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .