Refinery The Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG) has called for the revitalisation of Nigeria’s ailing refineries to pave way for sufficient local supply of petroleum products across the nation. The oil workers, who argued that it was a shame for the country to be depending on imported products for local consumption, urged President Muhammadu Buhari to use his second term in office to end Nigeria’s reliance on imported products. The union, which made its position known during its National Executive Council (NEC)-In-Session, yesterday, noted that Nigeria’s over dependence on petroleum products importation has made the country to be very vulnerable to the antics and manipulations of local and foreign barons. The union pledged to give the president all necessary support he needs to put an end to the menace. NUPENG President, Williams Akporeha, who said three refineries could not sustain the economy, called on government to construct new refineries with full capacities. He argued that no matter how government maintains the old refineries, they would never come to full capacity due to the large population of the country. The union also called for policies to sanction investors that were given licences to construct refineries but failed to bring them to limelight. Akporeha affirmed the union’s stand to resist any policy that would impact negatively on the oil and gas industry, the general public and the nation at large. He called for the creation of an enabling environment and the right policies for those ready to build refineries in the country. He said: “Why is it so difficult to maintain only three refineries; it cannot sustain the economy. We expect government to create that enabling environment where more refineries can come into place. “No matter how government maintains the old refineries, they can never come to full capacity. What we need to do is to construct new refineries with full capacities due to the large population. “Let us look at serious minded investors that are ready to build these refineries, while we look inward to make sure the old refineries are maintained to full capacity.” The NUPENG boss also tasked state governments in the Niger Delta region to create refineries in their domain, saying it would also help in creating jobs and ensuring that products were available.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .