 Emeka Ihedioha  The petition has Uzodinma and APC as first and second petitioners, while Ihedioha, PDP and INEC are first, second and third respondents. Speaking to The Guardian in Owerri at the weekend, APC Caretaker Committee Publicity Secretary, Enyinnia Onuegbu, expressed optimism that the party would get justice at the tribunal. According to him, the party got majority of votes cast during the poll and deserved to win, but was denied victory due to manipulation of the electoral process. He said the poll was characterised by irregularities, wrongful cancellation of the party’s votes and one that does not represent the interest of the people. He said, “APC was rigged out from the 27 local government areas of the state. For us, APC deserves to win except for INEC’s machinations. Of course, more than half of PDP votes came from one side. Does that represent the interest of Imo people?“We have submitted ourselves to due process of court. The decision is for the court, but everyone who goes to court hopes to win if the court favours him.” Meanwhile, Director General, Voice of Nigeria (VON), Osita Okechukwu, has asked the leadership of APC and members of the National Assembly to allow Ahmed Lawan and Femi Gbajabiamila to be President of the Senate and Speaker of the House of Representatives. Speaking to reporters at Nkerifi, Nkanu East Local Government Area of Enugu State at the wedding ceremony of Tochi Eze, Administrative Secretary of Buhari Support Organisation and Zikist Buharist Movement, Okechukwu stated that the duo had paid their dues in the party and deserved to lead the ninth National Assembly.He said: “My honest opinion is let Lawan and Gbajabiamila be. Without prejudice to zoning arrangement, they have paid their dues in the progressive camp. They have been consistent, steadfast and had persevered in the struggle, which made our victory possible. They are our arrowheads in the National Assembly.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .