With the outpour of tributes for Faye Mooney, a British aid worker killed during an attack on Kajuru Castle in Kaduna State on Friday, continuing, Nigerian leaders and the media have been largely silent on the identity of the Nigerian killed in the same attack. Matthew Oguchee, said to be Mooney’s partner, was working with International NGO Saftey Organisation (INSO) before his death. While the Western media, Nigerian politicians and celebrities have been eulogising Mooney, they have said very little about Oguche, a Kogi State native. Former Nigerian vice president Atiku Abubakar, current Senate president Bukola Saraki and a senator representing Kaduna South Shehu Sani have all paid tributes to Mooney. Only Abubakar and Senator Ben Murray-Bruce mentioned Oguche by name, although the focus of their tweets was Mooney. The Nigerian government and Kaduna State, where the fatal attack occurred, are yet to comment on the attack. Four other persons were kidnapped by the Kajuru Castle attackers at Kajuru Local Government Area in Kaduna State. The police, however, is yet to rescue the unidentified kidnap victims as at the time of this report. “I condemn the killing of British aid worker, Faye Mooney, and her Nigerian partner, Mathew Oguche two days ago in Kaduna State. Several other Nigerians were kidnapped during the episode. I want the government and people of the United Kingdom to know that these atrocious actions do not reflect Nigeria’s national character,” Atiku said in a statement. Unlike Atiku, Nigeria Senate president Saraki did not deem it feat to pay tribute to Oguche. “My heartfelt prayers go out to all the families affected by Friday’s attack on the Kajuru Castle resort in Kaduna. My deep condolences to the government of the United Kingdom and Mercy Corps, over the death of the British Aid worker, Faye Mooney, who was killed in the attack.” He thereafter prayed that security agencies rescue kidnap victims of the attack. Also, Nigerian serving lawmaker Senator Shehu Sani, who did not mention a word to his countryman, said, “Ms Faye Mooney felled to the Kidnappers bullet but factually felled by our failings.” Sani, who represents Kaduna Central in the Nigerian Senate described Mooney as “not a victim but a martyr & a hero who believed in us & walked into our mines with flowers & with love. She was a reflection of our tragedy, our perils & the bitter truth about our present.” Senator Murray-Bruce condoled with the United Kingdom government over Mooney’s death and simply called Oguche “her Nigerian compatriot.” “Britain is a friend of Nigeria and we must treat our friends well. I call on the FG and state govt to bring her killers to book,” Murray-Bruce said. Asides the comments from the leaders, the Nigerian media has also been silent on the Nigerian, who died in the attack. Like the western media, the majority of Nigeria media outfits did not even mention Oguche. Most of the reports simply addressed Oguche as “the Nigerian,” “her Nigerian boyfriend” and “the other victim”. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .