 Healthcare  Speaking during the IGH Quarterly Stakeholders Meeting on Friday, Akhabhoa said innovation would drastically reduce patients’ waiting time and boost healthy living. “Everything we have done in this hospital is a step further, but we keep aiming at being the best. The whole idea of innovation is not to reinvent the wheel, but to improve healthcare processes. We are diversifying our attention to our patients and are close to having a seamless experience,” he added. The medical director, who explained that the hospital has mapped out processes aimed at eliminating operational bottlenecks, added that the hospital has put in place, a platform where reported challenges are effectively tackled in an attempt to improve patients’ experiences and effective service delivery. “We operate an open system here, and that is why our bills are pasted where services are offered. This is for accountability. Another is promptness of service to manage turnaround time. We have had 750, 997 patients between 2016 and now. This shows a gradual patient increase from year-to-year. We have improved in services and most importantly functionality for staff and patients alike,” he added. Akhabhoa, who said the hospital would turn 45 next year, however, said that some of its buildings needed to be renovated, while functional utility vehicles also constitute a challenge. Service Improvement Office, Lagos Charter, Joan Oluyemi Yewande applauded the facility for steps so far taken to improve services. Oluyemi, who said the service charter carries out performance assessment, monitoring and mentoring on healthcare facilities in the state said, “the support we have given Isolo General Hospital is replicated in all other government health facilities. We want to ensure that all our health facilities offer optimum service delivery and are Service Charter compliant. We know that the clients (patients) come first and must get value from services rendered,” she added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .