Whatever your Easter Sunday plans may be, perhaps thanksgiving in church, a casual brunch with family and friends, or even just a small ceremony, you’ll need to stay stylish. But with the promise of good food and plenty of time to relax you will also want to be comfortable. We are aware that sometimes it might be difficult to find the middle ground between fabulousity and comfort so we have taken the liberty of compiling a few tips to help you strike a balance. Model wearing a batiste blouse, Photo. Yaoota Considering the fact that you are likely to be engaged with multiples activities the whole day and also factoring in the enormous heatwave that has become the order of the day, light fabrics like Batiste, Chiffon or Cotton Voile are highly recommended because they allow for maximum comfort and still give you a rather stylish chic look. Loeffler Randall Juno Kitten Heel Mules As we have earlier established, it is likely to be a very busy day for most people and that means a lot of moving around. In times like this, most ladies can attest to how uncomfortable heels can get after a couple of minutes talk less of a whole day. To avoid dreading your Easter Sunday which is ideally a day of celebration, you need to put on your metaphoric dancing shoes which could be loafers, wedges or flats but definitely not heels. The general view for this Easter Sunday look is more of comfortable chic so when selecting your handbag, you should opt for the less humongous ones because they would compliment your look much better and it would definitely be easier to move a smaller purse, a baguette bag or wristlet around with you as opposed to bigger bags which after a while will seem tedious. Tiana Parker wearing vintage design sunglasses, Photo. Shopify Having the right pair of sunglasses is a double win because not only does it further elevate your style game, it also protects you from the harsh rays of the sun which we can all agree has been rather extreme recently. A nice comfortable pair of shades would do just fine but the best sunglasses also protect you from harmful UV rays so it is advisable to invest in having the right ones for optimal results and the safety of your eyes. Ray Bans and Aviator shades do a pretty good job at keeping you chic and safe. Lady in a sun hat. Photo. Essence This season, hats are totally in vogue and even more so with the sunny weather. This means that there are a variety of hats you can wear to compliment your style and stay protected from the sun. High fashion brands have done an excellent job of providing varieties of hats to suit any occasion while supermodels and influencers have supplied enough style inspiration to serve as your ultimate guide to hat selection. Depending on your outfit choice, a boater or a sun hat should suffice to finish up just about any look.