Wi-fi Technology experts have implored organisations offering Wi-Fi services to embrace technologies that are able to deliver advanced solutions, in order to meet up with the rising demand of mobile device users. This was the focus of a technology interactive session by experts from Ruckus Networks for ISPs and organisations, hosted by Dizengoff Nigeria in Lagos. Sales Director, Ruckus Networks, sub-Saharan Africa, Riaan Graham, said Wi-Fi and Networking Technologies have initially been seen as purely for data requirements, but in recent years given the convergence of networks, the increase in data and the demands on businesses, Wi-Fi and networking solutions have become critical backbone infrastructure for companies today–across all sectors. Also speaking, General Manager, Technology & Innovation, Dizengoff Nigeria, Mr. Guy Rabinovich, said; “Nigeria is a rapidly growing market with very huge potential. With increasing Internet penetration in the economy and expansion in users of mobile devices connecting to Wi-Fi, organisations and ISPs are under pressure more than ever before to invest in technologies that are able to deliver more positive experiences.” “However, choosing the most suitable Wi-Fi technologies to deploy in different environments require organisations to be able to identify the right technologies that can better deliver solutions that create the best experiences for their users,” said Rabinovich. Globally, Wi-Fi technologies are known to experience challenges in high-density areas with lots of interference. This could be stadiums, warehouses and ports. Interference and sheer volume of traffic in such environments makes it extremely difficult to achieve high quality voice and data experience with most technologies for users connecting to Wi-Fi. This is where Ruckus has an edge. With innovations like smart roaming and band steering, and patented Beamflex adaptive antenna technology, they have the ability to give everyone a strong, consistent connection to deliver full HD video and voice. This has been evident in the number of clients that have invested in Ruckus in these high-dense environments globally. Continuing, Graham said: “Our ability to have focused signal strength on mobile devices have allowed more users connecting to Wi-Fi in high density environments to have positive experiences where Ruckus is deployed. Each network may look similar, but business challenges are different and it’s critical that a solution that caters for that unique business challenge is deployed.” Identifying the peculiarities of different markets and their needs, Graham indicates that Ruckus has different options for diverse markets and challenges particular to them. However, the uniqueness of the Ruckus technology offering enables its customers to save cost on their networking needs based on its ability to cover large areas.” Ruckus Networks is redefining connectivity by bridging the digital divide and connecting people around the world. Ruckus offer a complete line of high-performance network access infrastructure. The company’s product portfolio includes Wi-Fi controllers, indoor and outdoor access points, wired Ethernet switches, an IoT suite and private LTE (CBRS). They also offer network security, detailed analytics, open APIs and management software, along with professional services and support. Ruckus continuously innovates across both wireless and wired technologies to meet the evolving needs of the enterprise and service providers by enabling network convergence at the edge.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .