 The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC)  The ALTON boss said urgent action is required to save telcos further losses due to activities of OTT players, who do not invest in infrastructure. Adebayo, who said operators incur the costs while OTT players make the money, said service providers invest a lot on network infrastructure in order to provide basic and innovative services to customers.From his perspective, the National Coordinator, Wireless Application Service Providers Association of Nigeria (WASPAN) Chijioke Ezeh, said it will be a big problem for Nigeria to sign away data and digital opportunities, stressing that OTTs are milking the telecoms operators, vendors and the entire economy.
   
Ezeh, who charged NCC to pursue aggressive partnership with other regulators including the CBN, those in automobiles and others, noted that there was need to develop the telecoms market for indigenous players in the industry. Ezeh lamented that even GTB has become an OTT because they have displaced the micro recharge card sellers on the street, “thereby causing more job losses, while they raked in billions of Naira without any regulation from the telecoms sector.”
  
To Olusola Teniola, President, Association of Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria (ATCON), data is the new currency and must be guarded jealously, stressing that the treat of OTT acquiring the infrastructure of telecoms operators is real, ‘there should be urgent action against their rising profile in the country.”Teniola, who noted that any company making more money in Nigeria should be subjected to tax, companies coming into Nigeria for operation should be made to embrace full disclosusre of their activities in the country.
  
According to him, because of the behavioural change that is driven by competition, there is need for paradigm change. Teniola said OTT are using IP technology that is not regulated to disrupt the traditional telecoms sector, which has become very dangerous.  Furthermore, the NCC boss said that there was the need for the telecommunications industry players to understand the ongoing trend.“It is necessary for industry players like Telcos, vendors and Value Added Service (VAS) licensees to consider taking steps to change their business models in line with current and forecasted industry trends as may be required,” he stressed. 
  
He said that there was the need for industry players to challenge the accepted traditional norm of where a telecommunications business fits in the larger ecosystem. “In order to remain in business and thrive, there is need for telecommunications companies and vendors to think outside the box and create innovative partnership and low cost business models with themselves and other players in the business ecosystem. “This will create a win-win situation for all players and enable them to remain in business and thrive despite the industry’s complexities,” Danbatta said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .