 Photographers take pictures of Jewish priests wearing “Talit” prayer shawls as they take part in the Cohanim prayer (priest’s blessing) during the Passover (Pesach) holiday at the Western Wall in the Old City of Jerusalem on April 22, 2019. Thousands of Jews make the pilgrimage to Jerusalem during the eight-day Pesach holiday, which commemorates the Israelites’ exodus from slavery in Egypt some 3,500 years ago and they remember their plight by refraining from eating leavened food products.THOMAS COEX / AFP  Police estimated the crowd at more than 30,000 for the two morning ceremonies. US ambassador to Israel David Friedman, an Orthodox Jew, was among those in attendance, an AFP photographer reported. The “priestly blessing” takes place twice a year at one of Judaism’s holiest sites during the week-long holidays of Passover and Sukkot, which occurs in the autumn. With white prayer shawls covering their heads, Jewish men descended from the caste of priests — called Cohanim — raise their hands and chant the words of the blessing in the ceremony. The blessing is part of daily prayers chanted in synagogues worldwide, but mass gatherings have been held since the early 1970s twice a year evoking the biblical dictum of pilgrimage to the temple in Jerusalem on certain holidays. The Western Wall is a remnant of a supporting wall of the Second Temple complex, which was destroyed by the Romans in 70 AD. Above it lies the plaza where the temple once stood and which now houses the Haram al-Sharif compound, the third-holiest site in Islam that includes the Al-Aqsa mosque and Dome of the Rock. It is the holiest site to Jews, who refer to it as the Temple Mount. Jews are allowed to visit but not pray at the Al-Aqsa compound in Israeli-annexed east Jerusalem to avoid provoking tensions. Israel occupied east Jerusalem in 1967 and later annexed it in a move never recognised by the international community. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .