 [FILES] The leader of Islamic Movement of  Nigeria otherwise known as Shi”te, Ibrahim El-Zakzaky  The association also enjoined the government to ensure the release of Leah Sharibu and the remaining Chibok girls, who have been in Boko Haram’s captivity for years. CAN also warned men of God against organsing fake miracles, saying they will incur wrath of God, if they refuse to desist from the act. Ayokunle, who made the appeal at a media briefing to herald the Nigerian Baptist convention at the Church’s Seminary in Ogbomoso, Oyo State, urged President Mohammadu Buhari to do everything possible to address kidnapping, Boko Haram terrorism, herdsmen attack and ethnic militia. He said freedom of Nigerians should be the Federal Government’s top priority because the victims did nothing to warrant being in captivity. On fake miracles he said: “If any servant of God is organising man-made miracles, saying God has done what he has not done, that person will go to hell. He is not of the Church of Christ. These are people whose bellies are their Gods. They are not mindful of the things of the Bible. “I will admonish those who allow themselves to be used for man-made miracles to behave better. And if you see any so-called minister of the gospel organising man-made miracles, don’t patronise their Churches again so that they can go and look for a better job.” Speaking on the annual convention, which commenced at the weekend, he said missionaries from countries outside Nigeria and sister conventions from all over Africa would also attend the meeting. He said participants and invited guests stand the opportunity of fellowship and having spiritual renewal throughout the annual session.” Ayokunle also informed that apart from focusing on denominational business during the session, there would be Bible studies, symposia, drama, music ministrations each day, as well as special spiritual encounters, which would address people’s physical challenges and spiritual life battles. Meanwhile, a human rights activist, Patrick Eholor, has challenged CAN and the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) to regulate the proliferation of churches in the country. The News Agency of Nigeria ((NAN), reports that Eholor, who is founder of One Love Foundation, stated this in a chat with newsmen in Benin City, Edo State yesterday, saying the action would help preserve the sanity of the Church in Nigeria. He said the call became necessary against the background of incessant immoral activities of some faith-based organisations in the country, adding: “We also have the problem of explosion of mushroom churches across the country.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .