 Acting Inspector General of Police IGP Mohammed Adamu  During a visit to Lagos to condole with the family, friends and well-wishers of the victims and also address officers and men of the command against involving in acts that pitch the force against the public they are statutorily obligated to serve and protect, the IGP stated that henceforth supervisors, divisional police officers and area commanders would be held responsible for any mishandling of weapons. Adamu, who gave the warning yesterday at the Police College, Ikeja, said it was with deep sense of professional concern that he visited the command to address personnel. “This visit has become expedient in view of recent trend of unprofessional conduct by some personnel, who in utter disregard to their professional trainings, international protocol, constitutional dictates, policies and ethical standards, have continued to drag the force into acts that pitch us agonist the citizens we are engaged, paid, and statutory obligated to serve and protect. “From January to April, Lagos State recorded four incidents of misuse of firearms, which have resulted in extra-judicial killings of young citizens of this country and injuries to others. More worrisome is that two of these incidents occurred within the last two weeks,” he noted.
He assured the citizenry that the force had embarked on administrative measures geared at giving a new orientation to its officers as it relates to human rights and international best practices. Adamu ordered a nationwide training and capacity development programme on weapon handling as well as laws and policies regulating the use of coercion. He vowed that the affected officers involved in the killings would be prosecuted. During a courtesy call on Governor Akinwunmi Ambode at Lagos House in Alausa, Ikeja, the IGP disclosed that the culprits had been arrested and tried internally.He lamented that the activities of a few unscrupulous officers were denting the good work of the command. Meanwhile, the Abia command of the force has raised the alarm over the increasing post-election criminality in the state.The Commissioner of Police, Ene Okon, said yesterday in Umuahia that he had the resuscitated the command’s Crack Squad Monitoring Unit and a more effective Anti-Kidnapping Unit to tackle the situation. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .