 Ezekwesili  Incursion to activism
ALTHOUGH the mother of three sons, it is as though nature had originally intended that Oby should be a man. But having become a mother, she became one of the women that showed empathy for the abduction of the Chibok schoolgirls and actually co-founded the #BringBackOurGirls movement that attracted international attention to the mindless stealing of the school children.
 
In 2017 BBOG began the annual Chibok Girls Lecture, with Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi III as the guest speaker under the chairmanship of Professor Grace Alele Williams. The second lecture in 2018 was chaired by Hajiya Na’ajatu with Pastor Tunde Bakare delivering the keynote speech.  
  
It could be stated that it was through the activities and sustained campaigns of #BBOG that helped secure the safe return of 107 of the abducted girls and continued to advocate for the release of the remaining 112 Chibok girls, as well as Leah Sharibu, the only girl remaining in the hands of the abductors of her 105 colleagues from their school in Dapchi, Yobe State.
 
Four years after stumbling upon child rights activism, precisely in 2018, Ezekwesili began another round of advocacy, this time for the rights of citizens to hold their leaders to account under the auspices of Red Card Movement. When she started the movement on January 2018 in a Twitter post, Madam Due Process explained that Nigerian citizens must take a determined stand against recycling of leaders, which culminate in bad politics and governance.  Also, as the chairperson for Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI), she insisted on the publication of physical, financial and process audits of the oil and gas sector.
  
Ezekwesili stirred some controversies when she became the education minister in 2006 following her attempts to reform the sector through the adoption of a school initiative geared towards ‘restructuring and refocusing the ministry for the attainment of Education for All (EfA) targets and Millennium Development Goals’ to reduce the number of out-of-school-children. Temptation of partisan race
HAVING gone through the entire gamut of reform crusading and socio-political activism, as the 2019 general election approached, Oby toyed with the idea of contesting for the nation’s top job, the presidency, on a partisan platform. Her decision stirred debates as to whether all her walk through institutional reforms and work for citizens’ vigilance were aimed at securing political laurels.
 
But temptation to contest for elective office seemed to have come Oby’s way after the events of her 50th birthday anniversary in 2013, when most speakers eulogised her for her nationalistic endeavours. Particularly, current Kaduna State governor, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai, practically urged her to run.
 
Ezekwesili had responded to the calls on her to join partisan contest for public office by declaring that she was not a politician but a citizen. She had said: “Actually, there is nothing about being interested in politics if you understand democracy. Democracy is incomplete without the engagement of the citizens in the process. The demand for accountability and for results is the role of citizens. You don’t have to be in politics in order to be an active citizen engaged in the democratic process.
 
“The reason that we have lacked results and accountability since our first democratic experiment in the 1960s was simply because the citizens failed to play that role. I am not going to be a citizen that acts like a eunuch like there is no capacity to demand accountability.
  
“So, I am not a politician. The day I decide that I want to be a politician, you don’t need to guess, you will see me. I am very candid, I am very frank, I am too honest to play games on things that I believe in. I don’t want to be a politician; I am not a politician, but I am an active citizen who is basically carrying out the role that every citizen of this nation must carry out.”  Was she not willing to walk the talk? Ezekwesili’s quick dash into electoral contest and politics leaves a lesson: That possession of integrity is not enough on its own, but ability to diffuse same into society and survive the furnace of pervasive corruption. It is in building of consensus around a noble idea that the genius of a leader is distinguished.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .