GOtv Boxing Night The 18th edition of the GOtv Boxing Night will return to the ancient city of Ibadan on Easter Sunday with female boxing on the agenda. The organisers of the event said yesterday that they have started a massive hunt for female boxers across the country. The event slated for April 21 at the Indoor Sports Hall of the Obafemi Awolowo (formerly Liberty) Stadium, will be the third time it will hold in Ibadan. At a ceremony in Lagos yesterday, organisers of the GOtv Boxing Night rued the long absence of female pugilists from the event. Managing Director of Flykite Productions, organisers of the GOtv Boxing Night, Jenkins Alumona said: “We have been searching for female boxers, but we can’t find any. We even brought two female boxers from Ghana, including a Nigerian, who resides in that country to stir the interest of female boxers in the GOtv Boxing Night. If we can find two or more female boxers between now and April 21, we assure them of taking part in the Easter Sunday show in Ibadan,” Alumona stated. The previous two editions of the event in the Oyo State capital were held in March 2017 and July 2018. GOtv Boxing Night 18 will be headlined by the African Boxing Union (ABU) lightweight title defence bout between reigning champion, Oto “Joeboy” Joseph of Nigeria and Success “Brave Warrior” Tetteh of Ghana. It will also feature another international bout, a light middleweight challenge duel between Nigeria’s Akeem “Dodo” Sadiku and the Republic of Benin’s Ekpresso Djamihou. Also on the bout card are six domestic bouts, including the national super featherweight title fight between Ridwan “Scorpion” Oyekola and Taofeek “Taozon” Bisuga. West African Boxing Union (WABU) welterweight champion, Rilwan “Babyface” Babatunde returns to action as he battles Ganiyu “Energy” Kolawole in a challenge bout. The hard-punching Tawio “Esepo” Agbaje will face Michael “Holy Mike” Jacob in a national lightweight contest, while Adeyemi “Sense” Opeyemi and Sadiq “Happy Boy” Adeleke will slug it out in a national bantamweight challenge. Three graduates of GOtv Boxing NextGen Search 3 will also be in action. Morufu “Oloke” Owolabi will take on Jamiyu “Sunshine” Akande in a national lightweight challenge, while Issac “I Star” Chukwudi will be up against Ibadan-based Jubril “Terrible” Olalekan. The best boxer at the event will go home with a cash prize of N1million alongside the Mojisola Ogunsanya Memorial Trophy.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .