 Signs are displayed at the Huawei stand at the Shanghai Auto Show in Shanghai on April 17, 2019. (Photo by GREG BAKER / AFP)  The country’s National Security Council, which is chaired by May, agreed Tuesday to allow the Chinese technology giant limited access to building “non-core” infrastructure such as antennas, the report said. The decision was made despite concerns raised over May’s approach by Home Secretary Sajid Javid, Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt, Defence Secretary Gavin Williamson, International Trade Secretary Liam Fox and International Development Secretary Penny Mordaunt. Downing Street declined to comment but Huawei welcomed the newspaper report. “Huawei welcomes reports that the UK government is moving towards allowing Huawei to help build the UK’s 5G network,” it said in a statement. “This green light means that UK businesses and consumers will have access to the fastest and most reliable networks thanks to Huawei’s cutting edge technology. “While we await a formal government announcement, we are pleased that the UK is continuing to take an evidence-based approach to its work and we will continue work cooperatively with the government, and the industry.” The United States has however banned Huawei’s 5G technology from its territory and urged allies in the so-called Five Eyes intelligence-sharing collective — which also includes Australia, Britain, Canada and New Zealand — to follow suit. Huawei is the leading manufacturer of equipment for next-generation 5G mobile networks with almost instantaneous data transfer that will become the nervous system of Europe’s economy, in strategic sectors like energy, transport, banking and health care. The technology titan faces pushback in some Western markets over fears Beijing could spy on communications and gain access to critical infrastructure. Last month, Britain identified “significant technological issues” in Huawei’s engineering processes that pose “new risks” for the nation’s telecommunications, according to a government report. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .