 [FILE PHOTO] Rochas Okorocha  Prof. Chima Iwuchukwu will lead commissioners and other members of the committee. But the move did not go down well with the governor-elect, Emeka Ihedioha, as he has written to the National Universities Commission (NUC) not to honour the approval of more universities in the state. Okorocha said the House of Assembly backed the committee’s inauguration with a law. He compared the move to about 15 universities established in Ogun State, which enhanced admission opportunities and job placements. The proposed new schools include: Aboh Ngor University of Agriculture and Environmental Sciences; University of Agriculture and Developmental Science, Umuagwo; University of Science and Technology, Onuimo; University of Creative Technology, Isiaku-Nkwerre; University of Medical Science, Ogboko, Ideato South; Marine University, Oguta; College of Health Technology; Mbonu Ojike Polytechnic, Arondizuogu; and Bishop Shanahan Polytechnic, Ahiara Mbaise. Okorocha said the new institutions would be on 90 per cent private investors funding and 10 per cent government input, noting that government would handle infrastructure areas. Meanwhile, medical doctors in health facilities owned by the state have commenced indefinite strike. Chairman, Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) in Imo, Kyrian Duruewuru, who briefed journalists in Owerri yesterday, accused the state government of treating the doctors unfairly. He noted that the industrial action was to register their disaffection with the way Imo government under Okorocha had openly marginalised medical practitioners in the state. The NMA chairman explained that the first phase of the strike would involve all doctors in Imo State University Teaching Hospital (IMSUTH), Orlu; Imo State Specialist Hospital, Umuguma; and the Hospital Management Board (HMB). According to him, the second phase of the industrial action will involve all doctors in private hospitals and those in federal health centres in the state. Duruewuru asserted that while their colleagues practising in other states were enjoying the adjusted salary structure for medical practitioners, Okorocha refused to implement it. He said: “For the past four years, doctors in Imo have received 70 per cent of their salaries. Also, the doctors are being owed three months salaries by Imo government. For us, this highly unacceptable and very insensitive.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .