 Current Imo state governor, Gov Rochas Okorocha. Photo credit: Twitter  The PDP and some concerned Imo citizens had accused Okorocha and some members of his family of embarking on looting spree of some state government-owned property.But responding through a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Sam Onwuemeodo, yesterday, the governor said the PDP had adopted various unconventional tactics to plunder the state’s assets. The statement said: “We want to inform the general public and Imo people in particular that members of the PDP in the state have embarked on systematic and violent looting of properties owned by the state and brought or installed by Governor Okorocha. In doing that, they have adopted various unconventional tactics. “They have removed most of the solar street lights and other beauteous installations in the state capital. They have removed expensive seats kept in public buildings. They have also begun to snatch official cars especially from the women appointees. And they operate mostly at night.“They have formed themselves into Property Recovery Committees and task forces and they claim to have been set up and inaugurated by Chief Emeka Ihedioha, who was declared winner of the March 9, 2019, governorship election in the state.” Okorocha alleged that the party had robbed innocent citizens of their belongings, noting that its members do not believe in orderliness. “Having stayed out of power for eight years, they behave like dead people who have been resurrected from death. The only problem is that they have deployed their own excitement into looting,”he added. Meanwhile, the Ihedioha Support Group for Good Governance in the state has called on the governor-elect to deliver on his campaign promises when he assumes office. The group staged a march in Owerri, yesterday, to thank Imo people for voting en mass for a new government in the state. Speaking on behalf of the group, Edet Ekwe, Bolton Igboanugo, Jerome Nnadozie and Basil Okeoma advised Ihedioha to prioritise efforts that would address the yearnings of the people, saying his victory was for the entire Imo people. While expressing satisfaction with the outcome of this year’s general election in the state, the group hoped that under the incoming government, social infrastructure, quality health care, effective security and people-oriented policies, among others, would be achieved. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .