 Ibifaa Victor-Thompson  Beloved, watch yourself. What drives or motivates you to do what you are doing now? Is it money or for God’s will to be done?Despite being with Christ Jesus, Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve disciples, having heard the Word of God preached by the Master, still went out to betray or sell Him for 30 pieces of by negotiating with those who hated the gospel. This means even Judas Iscariot also hated the gospel of Christ Jesus. Hear what the writer of Proverbs said: “For as he thinketh in his heart, so is he: eat and drink, saith he to thee; but his heart is not with thee. The morsel which thou hast eaten shalt thou vomit up, and lose thy sweet words. Speak not in the ears of a fool: for he will despise the wisdom of thy words (Proverbs 23:7-9)”Where do you belong? Are you just pretending to be who you are not? Only time will tell, but remember that fire is not a respecter of anybody and the fire of the Lord will expose every hidden thing in your life. May you be a sincere person that serves God Almighty in Spirit and in truth. Judas Iscariot missed the whole essence of eternity because he was carried away by materialism and self-will. “Now when the even was come, he sat down with the twelve. And as they did eat, he said, Verily I say unto you, that one of you shall betray me. And they were exceeding sorrowful, and began everyone of them to say unto him, Lord, is it I? And he answered and said, He that dippeth his hand with me in the dish, the same shall betray me. The Son of man goeth as it is written of him: but woe unto that man by whom the Son of man is betrayed! It had been good for that man if he had not been born. Then Judas, which betrayed him, answered and said, Master, is it I? He said unto him, Thou hast said (Matthew 26:20-25)” Even when it was revealed and confirmed by the Master that Judas Iscariot will betray Him, yet because of what he will get from the negotiation he had with the Chief priests, there was no concern about his Master, because there is no conscience or feeling anymore. May your dead conscience come alive again in Jesus name! Whatever area you have fallen short of God’s glory and you no longer feel remorse, please, cry out to the Master Christ Jesus to help you, because there is still opportunity for you to make amend. Though Jesus said that it is written of Him that He would be betrayed; He said woe to the person that would betray Him. So many today are still betraying the Master in the kind of life they live, their speech and their belief (self-willed). I advise you to pray earnestly that you will never fulfil negative prophecies, but only the positive prophecies ones, because there is a curse that follows the negative, while blessings comes with the positive. “And as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and blessed it, and brake it, and gave it to the disciples, and said, Take, eat; this is my body. And he took the cup, and gave thanks, and gave it to them, saying, Drink ye all of it; For this is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins (Matthew 26:26-28).”Beloved, weep no more, Christ Jesus has paid your debt on the cross of Calvary. He is knocking at the door of your heart; will you allow Him to come in? (Revelation 3:20 & Matt. 11:28-30). God bless you!!! To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .