Petrol. PHOTO: GOOGLE.COM/SEARCH The Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN) in Kano State says the association has no plan to sell petrol above the government’s approved price of N145 per litre. The association also called on Nigerians to ignore the threat made by the IPMAN chairman for Ore Depot, Shina Amoo. The State IPMAN chairman, Alhaji Bashir Dan-Malam, disclosed this while addressing a news conference in Kano on Tuesday. Dan-Malam was reacting to a story credited to the IPMAN chairman for Ore Depot, Mr Shina Amoo, where he was quoted to have said that the association might start selling petrol above N145 per litre if depot owners continued to sell the product to them for between N136.50 and N137 per litre He said the association had no moral justification to sell petrol above the N145 per litre as there was adequate petrol supply in all the 21 depots across the country. “IPMAN will not sell the fuel above the government’s approved price because there are availability of the product at all the 21 government depots in the country. “So, I am calling on all marketers to go to these depots and buy the commodity but any marketer who goes to private depots is doing so on his own volition. “All the 21 depots are selling the product to marketers at the approved price of N133.28 but private depot owners are selling theirs at between N136.05 and N137 per litre. “So, marketers have the right to either buy from government depots or from the private depot owners at a higher rate, “ he said. Dan-Malam, who called on the chairman of Ore depot to withdraw the threat, urged the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) to sanction any depot owners who increase the price of petrol. He called on his members and Nigerians at large to ignore the threat made by the chairman, IPMAN Ore depot, saying that such a threat would not make any impact. “As I am talking to you now, the Managing Director of PPMC, Umar I. Ajiya, has dispatched a committee to the depot to find out reasons behind the purported increase,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .