 L-R Ezegozie Eze( General Manager of Universal Music Nigeria & Anglophone West Africa), Chidi Okeke (CEO Groove platforms), Sipho Dlamini (Managing Director of Universal Music Sub-Saharan Africa) and Ulrik Cahn (Senior Vice President, Emerg  The music streaming start-up is currently available via monthly subscription through Habari by GTBank, a leading platform for music, shopping and lifestyle content launched in November 2018. In making the announcement, Chief Executive Officer of Groove Platforms, who are responsible for the creation and development of uduX music Chidi Okeke stated that the service will also be fully incorporated into the Nigerian music market as a stand-alone app in the coming months. He said, “We have created a new platform to bring value to the music ecosystem both here in Nigeria, and the wider world at large. uduX music is excited to be working with Universal Music Group to help shape the future of digital music consumption in Africa and provide Nigerian music fans with access to their favorite artists from around the world.” Under the terms of the agreement and effective immediately, uduX will distribute music from UMG’s world-renowned labels through its streaming service in Nigeria. Users will now have access to UMG’s extensive catalog of both Nigerian and global recording artists including Eminem, Tekno, Post Malone, Nicki Minaj, Lady Zamar, Lil Wayne, Bob Marley, Brenda Fassie, Wurld, J.Cole, Dr. Tumi, Nasty C, Hugh Masekela, Larry Gaaga, Tamia, Maroon 5, Aka & Anatii, TJAN, Jah Prayzah, Nonso Bassey, Mafikizolo, Cina Soul, Ella Mai,and Mr. Eazi. Speaking also on the partnership, General Manager, Universal Music Nigeria, Ezegozie Eze Jr., said: “This partnership extends our reach and makes our artists’ music even more accessible to Nigerian music lovers. We are delighted to be the first global music company to partner with uduX and look forward to bringing the extraordinary creativity of our artists to as many Nigerian users as possible.” Last year, UMG announced the launch of Universal Music Nigeria, a new division within Western Africa to provide artists with comprehensive opportunities throughout the region and to provide pan-African talent the best possible launch pad for wider international success. UMG is accelerating the company’s focus on growing the entire African music ecosystem including recorded music, music publishing, production, live events, brand partnerships and merchandising efforts.