 Executive Director, Junior Achievement Nigeria, Simi Nwogugu (left); Board Chairman and Managing Partner, Verraki Partners, Niyi Yusuf; Head of Programmes, Aspire Coronation Trust Foundation, Ndifreke Okwuegbunam; Board Member and CEO, Agile Communications Limited, Rufai Ladipo; during a media parley to announce plans for JAN’s 20th anniversary celebrations held at the Elion Hotel, Lagos.  JAN’s Executive Director, Mrs. Simi Nwogugu who disclosed this while briefing journalists in Lagos on the group’s 20th anniversary celebration said they are prepared to train young people and impact them with the knowledge to operate in the global economy as well as equip adults with the tools to earn and keep their job in the present dispensation.She noted that the programme would bridge the gap between the classroom and the workplace as well as empower young people to succeed. She said,  “The organisation is poised to teach young people about business and provide students with intellectual and life skills to enable them operate in the world economy and fundamentals of money.  And also to empower young people to succeed in a global economy, bridge the gap between the classroom and the workplace. “The skills and knowledge they needed to plan for their future, and make smart academic and economic choices.”She further stated that the organization has reached over 900,000 children and young adults across the country since 1999 when it started. Her words, “After two decades, our core aim of preparing young people for the real world remains as important as ever. We are thrilled that for the past 20 years, our programs have supported our incredible youth by showing them how to generate and effectively manage wealth, create jobs for their communities and how to apply entrepreneurial thinking to the workplace. “Skills that are so important in securing their financial future.”She therefore called on key players in the private and public sectors to partner with JAN to improve the delivery of practical education, particularly entrepreneurial education, in order to address Nigeria’s youth bulge and growing rate of unemployment. “Every year, over one million would-be university students enter the workforce without tertiary education or appropriate training. The inability of many young men and women to obtain the requisite Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) skills that are in high demand has rendered them unattractive to the 21st century employer. “This is why some of our programmes will focus on digital to unlock potentials for the benefit of the country. We are more committed than ever to our mission of ensuring our youth have the values, skills and confidence to secure their financial future.”“JAN programmes are free and delivered by volunteers who provide relevant, hands-on experiences that give students between the ages of five and 27 the knowledge and skills in financial literacy, work readiness and entrepreneurship..”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .