 [FILE PHOTO] PDP chief, Uche Secondus<br />Photo: Twitter/UcheSecondus  The party, in a statement yesterday by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, urged the people to use the New Year to pray against “all negative projections. It noted that 2019, as an election year, “offers our citizens their much-desired opportunity to end the trajectory of economic hardship, hunger and starvation, strange diseases, untimely deaths, collapsed infrastructure, humongous unemployment figures, wanton killings and all the evils that have bedeviled our nation in almost four years. Meanwhile, the National Chairman of the party, Uche Secondus, has charged Nigerians to use their votes to restore the nation into prosperity. He said that 2019 is critical in the life of the nation as it would be a turning point in the emerging political evolution. “The general elections in the country this year 2019 provide ample opportunity for the country to be rescued and restored as the biggest black nation in the world, both economically and politically. “This year provides us the ground to save our democracy and the country from the comatose state. Secondus said that 2019 provides the way for us as a country to correct the mistakes we made in 2015, which has dangerously brought the country to this sorry state. He also said that good decisions by the voters would recover the country from the hands of the destroyers. “Our nation did not bargain for this quantum of avoidable bloodletting and loss of human lives when it voted in 2015. “Nigerians did not vote in 2015 for their economy, which was the best in the continent, to be so damaged to merit her the poor capital of the world. “It was not the desire of Nigerians in 2015 when they voted to have such frightening unemployment record as confirmed by the National Bureau of Statistics after nearly four years. “The growing insecurity in the land, the senseless killings across the country, the endless mauling down of our troops by terrorists and the apparent helpless and insensitive disposition of the government all raise a lot of concern and call for real change in our polity,” he said. The PDP chairman warned that it would be a huge disservice to the nation and invitation to anarchy if the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) fails to give the country free, fair and credible elections this year. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .