 Cardi B. Photo: Twitter  The event, which is the 61st, will hold on Sunday, February 10, at the Staples Center, downtown Los Angeles, United States. This year’s award will feature performances from a number of superstars with the likes of Cardi B, Post Malone, Camila Cabello, and Shawn Mendes leading the line up. The organisers announcement made on Thursday, January 17 via their social media pages. This is coming days after singer, Alicia Keys, was revealed as the host of this year’s event. Cardi B, real names Belcalis Marlenis Almánzar, has five nominations this year, including Record Of The Year for I Like It, Album Of The Year and Best Rap Album for her debut full-length, Invasion Of Privacy, Best Pop Duo/Group Performance with Maroon 5 for Girls Like You and Best Rap Performance for Be Careful. Born and raised in The Bronx, New York City, the rapper, songwriter, and television personality, first attracted attention for discussing her career as a stripper on social media. She became an Internet celebrity after several of her posts and videos went viral on Vine and Instagram. She has earned three number-one singles on the US Billboard Hot 100; Bodak Yellow, made her the second female rapper to top the chart with a solo output —following Lauryn Hill in 1998. I Like It made her the first female rapper to attain multiple number-one songs on the chart, and her Maroon 5 collaboration Girls Like You extended that record. Along with Chance the Rapper and T.I., she will be a judge for Netflix’s Rhythm + Flow, a 10-part hip-hop talent search set to debut this year. Meanwhile, first-time Grammy nominees Dan and Shay are up for Best Country Duo/Group Performance for Tequila, while fellow first-time nominee, Post Malone received four nominations: Record Of The Year and Best Rap/Sung Performance for Rockstar with 21 Savage, Album Of The Year for Beerbongs & Bentleys and Best Pop Solo Performance for Better Now. Taking to the Grammy stage for the first time is Canadian singer, songwriter and model, Shawn Peter Raul Mendes, who has been nominated for Song Of The Year for In My Blood and Best Pop Vocal Album for Shawn Mendes. He gained a following in 2013, posting song covers on the video-sharing application Vine. In 2014, he caught the attention of artiste manager, Andrew Gertler and Island Records A&R, Ziggy Chareton, which led to him signing a deal with the record label. Mendes released his self-titled debut Extended Play (2014) and his debut studio album Handwritten (2015), which single Stitches reached number one in the United Kingdom and the top 10 in the United States and Canada. He released his second studio album Illuminate (2016), which singles Treat You Better and There’s Nothing Holdin’ Me Back reached the top 10 in several countries. His self-titled third studio album, which he released last year, was supported by the lead single In My Blood. The three albums debuted atop the US Billboard 200, with the first one making him one of five artistes ever to debut at number one before the age of 18, and the third one making him the third-youngest artiste to achieve three number one albums. In 2017, the pop and folk pop singer became the first artiste to land three number one singles on the Billboard Adult Contemporary chart, and in 2018, became the first artiste to achieve four number one singles on the Adult Pop Songs chart, before the age of 20. Seun Kuti, son of late Afrobeat legend, Fela Anikulapo Kuti is also nominated in the World Music category for his album, Black Times.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .