 Awujale blessing Abiodun in his palace<br />  In what sounded as a likely return to Pa Obafemi Awolowo’s development model, the APC governorship candidate assured the people, who turned out in a carnival fashion for the rally, that if elected governor in the March 2 poll his administration would embark on tuition-free programme in Ogun State.
  
He also promised to grant full autonomy to local government councils in the state, stressing that such gesture would help to provide good governance and bring government closer to the people at the grassroots.  “We do not promise what we won’t do. When we get to Okemosan Governor’s House in Abeokuta, we will effect a change in the lives of the people of Isonyi. Your roads are bad; a local government without good road is unacceptable.”
 
As the campaign train moved through Imowo, Atan and Ijebu-Ode, shouts of Omoluabi greeted Abiodun and his entourage, including APC chieftains, wards leaders and supporters, as they waved to the crowd.
  
At Atan, the administrative headquarters of Ijebu North East Local Government, they were received by community chiefs, religious leaders and artisans. The gubernatorial candidate and his deputy were specially received by little Miss Adebisi Oyinlola with a flower vase before the baales in Atan appended their signatures to endorse the APC candidate.
  
Abiodun told them that he was not campaigning to become governor of Iperu or Ijebu-Ode, but governor of the people of Ogun State, adding: “‘My politics is defined by true service to the people, leadership by transparency, accountability, and credibility, anything fair and just.”
  
While assuring prompt settlement of teachers’ salaries and allowances, he promised to revisit issues of arrears of all workers’ entitlements, including leave bonuses. He said his administration would explore and tap all natural resources in Ogun State “to create further wealth and build more industries that will engage our youths in a gainful employment.”
 
While introducing defectors from other parties and other candidates of APC, Abiodun pleaded with residents of Atan and party faithful to vote APC in all the elections from presidential to House of Assembly members, stressing, “We have not had it better under any party. APC is the best and the only party with people’s interest.”
  
Babatunde Adebola and Adegoke Badru led former members of Accord Party (AP) that decamped to APC, just as Chief Nurein Bamowo led ADC’s state executive to the rally and assured the Abiodun campaign council of support and votes. 
  
Also addressing the rally, a former aide of the outgoing governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, Mr. Shuaib Omoyayi, described Abiodun as a reliable servant leader with a good heart, maintaining that Ogun APC couldn’t have sought “a better candidate at this critical time,” and urged Atan people to ignore parties of fake people and liars.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .