The Ogun State command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) has rescued a middle-aged woman in Atan, Ado-Odo/OtaLocal Government Area, suspected to have escaped from ritualist’s den.
 
The Guardian learnt that the woman was spotted on Monday around 3:00pm during the surveillance of the Atan area by men of the Ota West Division of the NSCDC. She was half naked and neat but unconscious.She was rescued and taken to the NSCDC divisional office at Atan. She resisted all security tactics used to get information from her, but when she was offered a pen and paper to write something that might give the officers some hint about her, she wrote a phone number, which was immediately dialed with a receiver who identified himself as Alhaji Yusuf Kolawole Isiaka, her husband, who resides at 12, Adekunle Adeoye Street, Arigbawonwo, Mowe, Ogun State, promised to rush down to the Divisional office immediately.
 
According to the Divisional Officer, Ganiyat Adeyiolu, her husband in company of five other family members arrived the office around 8.10pm, with the victim’s pictures, “for us to know they are her family”. Her husband who identified the woman as Alhaja Yusuf Omolola Hafsat, disclosed that: “she left home (Mowe) for a family party
at Mushin on Saturday, January 26, 2019 at about 10.00am, but when we expected her to have returned and she didn’t, we had to put a call to their family at Mushin to know if she was still with them, but
surprisingly, they said she didn’t come to Mushin at all.”
 
He noted that since that Saturday night, they have been searching for her and have also reported the case at Mowe Police Station, coupled with announcements on Lagos Television (LTV 8), all to no avail, until he
received the call from the officers.
 
Immediately after her identification, the NSCDC officers, together with the family members rushed her to Oluwalogbon medical center, Atan for medical attention before the family took her home at about 10:13pm
after proper handing over by the divisional officer.Her husband lauded the efforts of the NSCDC.
 
The Divisional Officer appealed to the public to be security conscious when boarding vehicles, urging commuters to always use public motor parks where commercial vehicles can easily be traced.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .