 Ogun APC candidate Dapo Abiodun  Osoba told the party leaders and supporters of Abiodun that attended the ward-to-ward rally of the APC in Ifo Local Government, that “Change is the only constant thing in life, and there is nothing that has a beginning without an end.” “The people of Ifo, Ado-Ota and Ewekoro in this axis know that I do not support failure. I have grown beyond pettiness and political prostitution. Our progressive principle and philosophy that culminated into a strong relationship started way back in the early 1990s when you all voted me as your governor. “Ifo people have always been supportive. You truly believe in the politics and leadership style of the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo and you have not denied us for a minute. Today, we have only come here to present the next governor of Ogun State, Prince Dapo Abiodun, from Iperu-Remo. “He is a young man with sounding values, respect and leadership qualities devoid of favoritism and nepotism. I urged you all to support and vote him as your governor. He has a task to fulfil to the people of Ogun State.” Earlier in the day, Abiodun and his campaign team led by APC Caretaker Chairman, Chief Sanusi, visited the palaces of Olu of Ilaro,  Oba Kehinde Olugbenle; Olu of Ifo, Oba Samuel Oladipupo; Ajuwon of Ajuwon land, Oba Nurudeen Egunshola; and the Ilorin of Isheri, Oba Akanbi Adebowale. During the visit, the APC governorship candidate appreciated the mass turn out for his rally in the towns, and assured the people and their monarchs of his readiness to drive the state out of economic woes that have prevented them from enjoying true dividend of democracy. “I have been briefed, and we have all gone round to see for ourselves the many challenges and problems of these communities ranging from insecurity and bad roads to poor electrification and it is our promise to the people, particularly the elders, to bring solution when elected.” “Go all out to vote APC in the next election, and leave those who want to play God to face their doom. APC is one, and we are visible in Ogun State. Go all out massively on election day with your PVC, it is the only way we can all match progressively to the next level.” [  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .