 [FILE] Nigeria’s forward Victor Moses reacts during the Russia 2018 World Cup Group D football match between Croatia and Nigeria at the Kaliningrad Stadium in Kaliningrad on June 16, 2018. / AFP PHOTO / OZAN KOSE /  Pinnick last week revealed his plan to meet with Moses to persuade him to return to the Super Eagles, adding that if the plan failed, then federation would organise a befitting testimonial match for the former winner of the AFCON. Speaking to The Guardian yesterday, Owolabi said the nation might still need Moses’ wealth of experience, adding that the Chelsea star was still young and possess the quality to lift the team. “The more the players we have in the Super Eagles competing for positions, the merrier. Moses is still young, an asset, and quality player with a lot of experience. But that does not mean that we don’t have players, who will fit into his shoes. But what we are saying boils down on his wealth of experience, which can be useful to the team at the AFCON. “I know if he is ready to play for the country again from the bottom of his heart, I believe he will do so. I wouldn’t know if Moses personally told Nigerians he would no longer play for the nation. Whatever may be the case, if he is ready to come back, let him not hesitate. “Nevertheless, the plan by the NFF’s boss to persuade him to rescind his earlier decision is a welcome development, especially if the federation sees something useful in him that he can bring back into the national team,” he said. The former IICC Shooting Stars of Ibadan star, however, wants Moses’ return to the team to be done in consonance with the Super Eagles’ handlers.“His invitation to the team must be done in collaboration with the coach because the option lies with him. It is one thing to recommend a player to a coach and it is another thing for the coach to weight his return and decide if the player still fits into his plan. As we know, the coach has the final say on any recommendation anyone is given,” he stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .