Tyrone Ebuehi, who has started training after a long injury lay off, is expected to rejoin the Super Eagles ahead of the AFCON qualifier against Seychelles…in March. Super Eagles’ Defender, Tyrone Ebuehi, who has been out of the national team since he copped an injury last year, may rejoin the team ahead of the last African Nations Cup qualifier against Seychelles and the friendly matches lined up as preparatory games for the AFCON. Also likely to rejoin the Eagles is Shehu Abdullahi, who played his first game in three months at the weekend. Ebuehi played for the Eagles at the Russia 2018 World Cup, but he has been kept away from the team by a left anterior cruciate ligament injury he copped in a pre-season game for his club, Benfica against Juventus. Last year, Rohr sent a fitness trainer to work with the former Holland junior international, who, according to sources, would be checked out by Super Eagles’ doctors before the team reconvenes for the game against Seychelles. Rohr told a local website that his crew had been monitoring all the players available for the national team with a view to improving the level of the squad. He said, “it is a moment to monitor our players to see if they are fit and of course have some news also from our injured players. “Tyrone has started training again but he can’t start playing. The same thing applies to Ahmed Musa, who has an injury at the moment.” Also coming back from an injury lay off is Bursaspor right back, Shehu, who played his first game in three months at the weekend. Shehu suffered a thigh muscle rupture during an AFCON qualifier against Libya in October. The 25-year-old came on in the 80th minute as Bursaspor shared the spoils with a 1-1 draw against Kayserispor at the weekend. Team Captain, John Mikel Obi is also one of the players likely to return to the team for the game against Seychelles. Mikel has not played for Nigeria since the Super Eagles were knocked out of the Russia 2018 World Cup in the first round. The former Chelsea midfielder recently returned to England where he now plays for Middlesbrough in the second tier Championship. Rohr said the Eagles’ technical crew was abreast of the players’ fitness and performance in their clubs.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .