Amidst allegations of sexual abuse trailing embattled singer, R. Kelly, his brother Carey Kelly has revealed more shocking details about their childhood. It would be recalled that in times past, R. Kelly has hinted at being sexually abused as a child by someone close to him although he never revealed who sexually molested him. Now, in an explosive interview, Carey has revealed who their abuser was. In the interview which has since gone viral online, Carey alleges that their older sister, Theresa who was 16-years-old at the time was their abuser. He disclosed that she abused him when he was six-years-old. Carey dished on “Unwine With Tasha K” that Theresa raped and molested him and R. Kelly for over a period of six years when she was put in charge of watching them whenever their mother was away at work. In the tell-all interview, he opened up about how she would punish them for flimsy reasons, The punishment would be for them to stay inside the house with her and not be allowed to go out and play with the others. He said his sister made sure to punish only one brother at a time so that while others were out playing, one was inside with her. He recalled: “She just took my head and put it down in her private part. She told me to lick her private part. Of course, I didn’t know what I was doing at six years old. She was like, ‘stick your tongue out, stick your tongue out, lick it, lick it, lick it hard, lick it fast.’ And then she started giving me oral sex with her mouth. So she turned around and laid me down and she sat on me. And she took her hand and she grabbed my private part and she put it in.” Theresa | FlyTime TV He also said he hasn’t spoken with his sister since their mother died a few years back adding that he never told his mom about the abuse because he didn’t want her to look at him as if he had done something wrong. Carey went on to call out other members of his family during the interview. He said that his brother (R. Kelly) is “a monster”, his other brother (Bruce Kelly) is on drugs. (Bruce is currently in prison). Carey continues, saying that his sister is a molester, his niece is a “hoocie ” and his nephew a molester too. The only person he spoke positively about was his mother. Watch the video below:  It would be recalled that Lifetime recently aired a docuseries, “Surviving R. Kelly” on R. Kelly in which victims who suffered alleged sexual abuse and molestation in the singer’s hands recounted their experiences. Prior to Lifetime airing the docuseries, he threatened to take legal action against Lifetime alleging that the docuseries paint him as a bad person. Lifetime, however, went ahead to air the docuseries and in the wake of criticism that has since trailed the award-winning singer, a Facebook page, “Surviving Lies” has been launched in a bid to discredit the alleged victims and their allegations.