 [FILE PHOTO] Voters during election  INEC, however, threatened to cancel and withdraw the accreditation of any organisation if its members or agents breach the code of conduct. The commission, in a notice on its website, warned that any unaccredited group found in any state for the elections would be handed over to law enforcement agencies. It also said that accredited field observers found in states other than where they were posted would be sanctioned.
According to the commission, the list includes 116 local observers and 28 foreign observers. “INEC is pleased to announce the successful applicants to observe the 2019 general elections holding on February 16, 2019 and March 2, 2019. “All accredited observers shall abide by the code of conduct for election observers, which is available for download from the INEC website.” Meanwhile, the United States of America has again cautioned against violence, saying election is not war. The American government also stated that it is not supporting any presidential candidate. The U.S. Consul General, John Braide, stated this yesterday, when he spoke at a ‘Vote not Fight’ sensitization campaign peace concert organized by Media Awareness and Justice Initiative (MAJI), held in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. “We are not here (in Nigeria) to support any candidate. We are here to support free, fair, credible and transparent election in Nigeria. Election is not war.” Braide described Nigerians as lucky people and advised the electorate to use their Permanent Voter’s Cards (PVCs) to elect credible leaders on February 16 and March 2, elections. Also speaking, the Commissioner of Police, Mr. Usman Belel, advised Nigerian youths to ignore the destructive overtures of gullible politicians to use them to  cause crisis during the forthcoming polls. Belel noted that more than 70 percent of Nigerian voters are youths and advised “do not destroy your tomorrow today”. The Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Mr. Obo Effanga, said the commission was ready to conduct transparent elections. He assured Nigerians that the election would be peaceful. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .