 Vice Presidential candidate of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Peter Obi  smiles during a campaign rally in Ilorin, north-central Nigeria, on December 5, 2018. – Candidates of the Nigeria’s opposition party Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) launch their political campaign on December 5, 2018 ahead of the 2019 general elections. (Photo by PIUS UTOMI EKPEI / AFP)  Vice Presidential candidate of the PDP, Mr. Peter Obi, has disclosed how the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) would make the country work again.He said the problem with Nigerian was more because of the inefficiency in programme implementation, rather than policy formulation. Obi stated this during a live interview on Channels Television.According to him: “This All Progressives Congress (APC) government has for long formulated different, beautiful policies, but the problem is with implementation.” Obi said: “The Atiku government would concentrate on project implementation to a measurable level that Nigerians would see, feel and appreciate.”On how many megawatts of power Atiku government would add, Obi who insisted that four years was enough for meaningful improvement in the sector, said there was a clear roadmap that would be discussed in details during longer programmes. The PDP running mate criticised the present government for its lack of proper projects implementation and transparency.He stressed that the quantum of money already borrowed did not match the projects that were actually executed.	He concluded that the problem is not with borrowing, but actually in utilising the money borrowed for productive projects, rather than consumption and waste, as rampantly witnessed in Nigeria till today. “To get Nigeria working again, the inefficiency, incompetence, and anti- people policies that have long characterised the APC-led government of Nigeria must be reversed,” he said. Meanwhile, ex-governor of Cross River State, Liyel Imoke, says only the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) truly exists in the state.He made the statement when Governor Ben Ayade led some PDP members to visit him at his country home in Itigidi, Abi Local Council Area to mark the New year.Addressing the crowd and party supporters, Imoke stressed the need for the party to be united as one family, and thanked Ayade for sustaining the PDP’s family yearly tradition in over 20 years, of gathering at his home every first of January. But, the All Progressives Congress, (APC) in the state, Senator John Owan Enoh accused Ayade’s government of not being able to stand competition.Owan, who blamed the government of pulling down his campaign billboards, said Ayade could not stand the sight, hence he ordered his agents to pull them down, despite having paid N2 million-billboard fee. Similarly, the Archbishop of Enugu Ecclesiastical Province (Anglican Communion), Most Rev. Dr. Emmanuel Chukwuma, has declared that the re-election of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State “is going to be a walkover by God’s grace,” citing his outstanding performance and uncommon leadership style. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .