News Editor of The Guardian, Mr. Marcel Mbamalu (2nd left); his daughter Kamsi (left); President of the Jacksonites Alumni Association of the Mass Communication Department, University of Nigeria Nsukka(UNN), Prof. Pat Utomi; Mr. Mike Asuquo and Muritala Sule when the Alumni celebrated Mbamalu’s 48th birthday in Lagos on Saturday. It was a celebration of achievements, life and friendship as Alumni Association of the Department of Mass Communication, University of Nigeria Nsukka(UNN) hosted the news editor of The Guardian Mr Marcel Mbamalu as part of activities to mark his birthday celebration. The event, which held at the Victoria Island in Lagos on Saturday, attracted scholars, media executives, professionals from all walks of life, friends and family of the man who they say has impacted the lives of many. Chanting songs of celebration in honour of the media expert, the alumni applauded him for his role in redefining journalism practice in Nigeria and The Guardian for its achievements so far. They described the journalist with over 15 years experience in news gathering, reporting and editing as a determined editor with a far-reaching network of contacts and news sources across Nigeria and Africa. Chairman of the Centre for Values in Leadership (CVL), Prof. Pat Utomi described Mr Mbamalu as “lover of human development.” He commended the versatility of the media professional, who, according to him, continues to inspire and mentor younger people into journalism through his works, acts and deeds. Utomi further prayed that God continues to grant him long life, good health to enjoy his passion, and more fruitful years of service to humanity and the nation. Mbamalu in his response said, “I thank everyone of you, especially Prof. Utomi who has for a very long time been a mentor to me; he was my mentor without knowing it until we even met and the relationship has been sustained and made even better.” “So whatever he has said about me and my profession, he has played a major role there. I thank God for him and for everyone here because you have all inspired me one way or the other, so today I appreciate you all and say God bless you.” He described the journalism profession as “a job only the passionate can do” and decried what he called the emerging vice of fake news and corruption in journalism practice. He, however, expressed confidence in the potential of good journalism to turn the country around and keep it on the path of development. Mbamalu holds a Bachelor of Arts (BA) in Mass Communication, UNN and a Master of Science (MSc) in Mass Communication, Unilag. He is currently a PhD candidate in the Department of Mass Communication, UNN. In addition, he has attended various international as well as local courses and conferences including IFAD Training in Agribusiness and Agricultural Reporting (Italy); AfDB/Thomson Reuters Training in Coverage of Development Issues in Africa (Tunisia); Next Einstein Forum (NEF) (Rwanda); Africa CEO Forum (Switzerland); Highway Africa Conference for Journalists (South Africa); Africomm Telecommunications Conference (South Africa); IFC Training in Financial Reporting (Lagos); Business and Economic Reporting, School of Media and Communication, Pan-Atlantic University (Lagos) among others. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .