The suspects Founder of a Celestial Church of Christ (CCC), “Ibanujemidopin” Parish in Uso, Owo Local Government Area of Ondo State, Prophet Olajide Ogunleye, was arrested for attempts to use pants for rituals. Ogunleye, 53 was paraded at the police command headquarters yesterday in Akure alongside his client, Ojonugwa Adejoh, 25, who stole his sister’s three pants and two belonging to her cousin’s wife, among other suspects. Speaking to The Guardian, Adejoh who is a native of Kogi State and an automobile technician, confessed to the crime, revealing that he went to the prophet to pray for him over his job. “When I got there, he asked me the kind of job that I do and I told him that I am an expert in Panel beating and he said he wanted to pray for me. He urged me to open my hands and he put something on it; and asked me to swallow it. “He prayed for me and I left the place. But when I got home I didn’t know what I was doing again. I just started looking for my brother’s wife’s panties and when I got the pants, I went back to him.” The suspect said. He added: “I did not steal the pants for rituals. Few hours after, my brother’s wife raised an alarm that she didn’t see her pants again and I was arrested. When the police arrested me, I was taken to Uso Police Station before they transferred me to Akure. Two pants belongs to my brother’s wife and three belongs to my younger sister,” he said. But the prophet denied the allegations by Adejoh and claimed that he had never met him before, adding that it was a set-up by the suspect’s cousin, Benjamin Chogun whom he denied access to his land. “His brother came to meet me begging that I should lease out my land for farming, but I refused because many of them would come here and end up using our lands for Indian hemp plantation. “I don’t know him and never sent him to bring panties; I am a prophet of God and I always run away from criminal activities. They have set me up because I refused to give them my land,” the prophet said. Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mr. Femi Joseph, noted that the command had begun investigations into the crimes, urging the public, especially ladies to be vigilant. “This is a very dangerous phenomenon now. We are using this opportunity to enjoin our ladies and women that this is a very dangerous phenomenon now. “We have to guard whatever we are putting on whether underwear or not. Parents should warn their children particularly female to be very careful about where they keep their wears.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .