 (FILES) In this file photo taken on December 5, 2018 US golfer and captain of the US Presidents Cup team Tiger Woods attends a press conference in Melbourne, one year ahead of the 2019 edition to be held at the Royal Melbourne Golf Club. – Tiger Woods will make his 2019 debut at next week’s Farmers Insurance Open at Torrey Pines in California, tournament organisers confirmed on January 16, 2019. The 43-year-old world number 12, who made a successful return to the sport last year after missing nearly two years through injury, has been a regular competitor at Torrey Pines throughout his career. (Photo by William WEST / AFP)  Woods, a 14-time major winner playing his first event since turning 43 last month, returns to the Torrey Pines course where he won this event seven times and captured his most recent major victory at the 2008 US Open. Full pairings will not be revealed until Tuesday for the 156-player field but featured groups for the first and second rounds were revealed Monday and they include the first official tour rounds with Woods for Finau and Schauffele. It will be a perfect opportunity for 13th-ranked Woods, captain of this year’s US team for the Presidents Cup, to analyze potential talent for the American squad, with Schauffele second in points and Finau sixth. This year’s Presidents Cup will be played in December at Royal Melbourne in Australia. Sixth-ranked Schauffele has won twice already in the 2018-19 season, capturing the WGC HSBC Champions in November at Shanghai and the PGA Tournament of Champions early this month in Hawaii, where he fired a final-round 11-under par 62. Finau, ranked 10th, lost a playoff to Schauffele for the title in China. Another feature grouping for the first two rounds includes Australians Jason Day and Adam Scott and Northern Ireland’s Rory McIlroy. Scott, the 2013 Masters champion, and eight-ranked McIlroy, a four-time major winner, are each playing the event for the first time while 12th-ranked Day is the defending champion and seeks his third crown in five seasons. Top-ranked Justin Rose of Britain will be joined by Americans Jordan Spieth and Billy Horschel in another group while Spain’s seventh-ranked Jon Rahm, whose first US PGA win came at Torrey Pines in 2017, tees off alongside Americans Rickie Fowler and Brandt Snedeker in the first two rounds.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .