 [FILES] Power Meter  This, he, said was despite government’s new Meter Asset Provider (MAP) policy. He stated this at the inauguration of a chemical and engineering laboratory at Ijora-Olopa, Lagos, which was upgraded and refashioned by the Nigerian Electricity Management Services Agency. The MAP policy is targeted at accelerating the process by engaging private businesses. Fashola said the model became necessary following complaints by DisCos in the area of business financing and other constraints, adding that the move would ameliorate the current challenging stance faced by DisCos. The minister explained that the licensing of the 108-meter assets companies was awaiting the approval of the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC). Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, NEMSA and Chief Electrical Inspector of the Federation, Mr. Peter Ewesor, described the inauguration of the laboratory as a major milestone for NEMSA. He stressed that this was for the enhancement of its functions and mandate at enforcing technical standards and regulations regarding electrical materials, power equipment and industry-related chemicals. The minister had explained that the MAP Regulations 2018 was introduced by NERC last year to eliminate estimated billing practice, attract private investments into the provision of metering services, and close the metering gap through accelerated meter rollout. On the upgraded NEMSA facility, Fashola said: “Essentially, this is an upgraded, properly fitted laboratory to help the agency in charge of enforcing safety compliance do its job, and that should translate to a better service delivery across the entire value chain.” Expressing optimism about better services in the power sector, he said: “We have a policy on metering, the Meter Asset Provider policy, which allows new businesses to enter the metering area. Just in the way the Gencos and Discos were licensed, we are going to license them too as meter asset providers in the value chain of power supply. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .