 The co-founder of TedPrime Hub, Ayodele Odeogbola  Empatico’s Head of Partnerships, Erick Roa, stressed the need to engage children on empathy and kindness in a way to advance intercultural exchange and global learning in classrooms, which would not have been possible without technology. The Project Representative and Empatico Connector, Ayodele Odeogbola of TedPrime Hub, reiterated the need to champion the attainment of United Nations (UN) SDGs right from the classroom and more importantly, the children and educators in the early education stream through low cost technologies. “It is in no doubt that Empatico project would influence the attainment of UN SDGs on quality education, reduce inequalities, good health and wellbeing and more importantly, partnership for the goals right from the classroom,” said Odeogbola. Also, the Technical Lead for the organisation, Olalekan Adeeko, acknowledged that this project would improve the learning outcome and teacher quality and status in primary education of Nigeria on respectful communication as well as leadership skills and TedPrime Hub would be working on incentives to motivate these teachers that advance to classrooms and partner exchanges with other peers around the globe on Empatico platform. Various educational gift items for the top participating teachers are not limited to free tablets PC, rechargeable mini projectors, free data subscription and all expense paid trip to education-led conference outside the country. Empatico is a free tool for teachers to connect their classroom with others around the world, through a combination of live video and activities designed to foster meaningful connections among students. Empatico offers time-efficient resources for teachers to schedule virtual exchanges and high-quality activities designed for students aged seven to 11 who are conversational in English. Empatico empowers teachers and students to explore the world through experiences that spark curiosity, kindness, and empathy. The project, which its first phase in Nigeria would last till June 2019, kicks off in Lagos, Ogun, FCT, Oyo, Ondo, Osun, Edo, Benue, Ekiti and Kwara states.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .