Khloe Kardashian had an eventful 2018 as she had to endure highs and lows. The mother of one took a moment to reflect on the trying yet rewarding times as she posted a heartwarming video to her Instagram on Monday. She captioned the video, “2018 was a roller coaster of emotions. My soul endured, the highest highs and the lowest lows. Praise be to GOD because at this moment, I’m at an all time high.” The Good American designer noted she struggled with many challenges including the cheating scandal that plagued her and beau Tristan Thompson, a month before she gave birth to their daughter True. She said, “This season the devil did not rest, I was tested, time and time again. I came out of my experiences stronger than ever! My spirit can not be broken!! “This year I faced my challenges by trusting myself, not always in my decisions but in my ability to overcome whatever I was being tested with,” she added. “I now know I am a conqueror, I am stronger than I ever could have imagined, and no matter which obstacle I face, I will always overcome it.” “Life does not always go as planned, but the beauty of it is, that it can surprise you in any moment with the sweetest of serendipity. The key is to keep moving forward, keep smiling, keep being a positive ray of light in a somewhat dark world! Knowing that God and the universe has your back and that life is meant to get better as long as we internally feel grateful and strive to become better humans.” Khloe ended the post with a beautiful message and tribute to her daughter. “Start each day with a grateful, loving heart. Be truly grateful and that will create a ripple effect of karma and blessings. You get what you give in anything you do. True, you are and forever will be my greatest blessing- my greatest gift!! There is nothing I wouldn’t endure a million times over to be blessed with an angel like you!!! Thank you for showing me what it feels like to be complete. To be at peace in my soul. I never knew my heart could be so full. I will love you until the end of time! You were worth the wait my sweet baby True!” 