Wife of Ekiti State governor, Erelu Bisi Fayemi (left) with mother of the second Baby of the Year, at Okeyimi Health Centre Facility Ado Ekiti • Fayemi’s wife urges pregnant women in Ekiti not to give birth at home
Baby Adegbesan, a male, delivered at exactly 12:00a.m. at Island Maternity, Lagos, is the first Lagos baby of the year 2019. Another baby, a female, delivered at 12:01a.m. by Mrs. Susan-Taiwo Jolaifa is the second baby of the year. Also, baby Awofeso, a boy, was delivered at Shomolu General Hospital. The baby who weighed 3kg was delivered at 1:47a.m. yesterday. Two other babies were delivered at Surulere General Hospital, Randle at 1:58a.m. and 4:00a.m. Wife of the Lagos State governor, Mrs. Bolanle Ambode, who was at Island Maternity Hospital, Shomolu and Surulere General Hospitals to celebrate with the new mothers on the arrival of their babies, said safe delivery of a healthy baby does not happen by chance as it requires that the mother takes steps to ensure that she lives a healthy life during pregnancy and gets skilled care during delivery. “Expectant mothers must ensure that they live the kind of life that will promote their own health and the well being of the expected baby. Procreation is divine and no woman deserves to die in the process. We are here today not just to celebrate the new baby but to also seek opportunities to make a difference in the lives of the people at this season of love.” Also, the wife of Ekiti State governor, Erelu Bisi Fayemi, has urged pregnant women in the state to desist from the practice of giving birth to their babies at home saying that such practice is dangerous and life-threatening. This was just as she receives the first three babies of the year at the Federal Teaching Hospital (FETHI), Ido Ekiti and Ekiti State University Teaching Hospitals in Ado Ekiti respectively. Bolaji Blessing, the first baby of the year, a boy, was born at the Comprehensive Health Centre, Sharp Corner, Ido-Ekiti, at 12:04a.m. to the family of Mr. and Mrs. Tope Akilo. Monarch of Ido Ekiti, Oba Ilori Faboro, witnessed the hand over of the baby to Fayemi. All their hospital bills were settled by the first lady and others who also enjoyed settlement of their hospital bills included Afolalu Adeyinka Easter, N109,900; Adaramola Iyabo Linda, N 80,400; Adefola Bola, N104,660; Ayodele Temitayo, N139,600; and Akomolafe Titilayo, N102,120. Fayemi said: “Traditionally, we go to the teaching hospitals to receive them but this year we didn’t have them at the teaching hospital. Babies are blessings from God and nobody knows when they would arrive.” Meanwhile, Vitafoam Nigeria Plc has kept its long tradition of gifting its range of products to the first babies delivered every new year as well as donating its products to the management of the Lagos Island Maternity Hospital (LIMH). The first three babies of 2019 born at the LIMH were the centre of attraction on New Year’s day during the presentation of gifts by the management. Presenting the gifts which include wooden baby cots, mattresses, pillows, duvet, baby pillows, feeders among others to the first baby, Vitafoam Nigeria Group Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Taiwo Adeniyi, explained that the donations were consistent with the company’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy and tradition to be involved in the part of a child’s life. According to him, a child of today is tomorrow’s leader and his upbringing will go a long way into the factors that will shape his adulthood. Commending the donation, Chief Medical Director of LIMH, Dr. Olumuyiwa Eniayewu, praised the management, pledging to put the materials to good use. Also, mother of the first baby of the year, Mrs. Basirat Adegbesan, expressed gratitude to God for her safe delivery and appreciated Vitafoam for the gifts. As part of efforts aimed at putting smiles on the faces of Nigerian mothers, Rotary Club of Lagos Central yesterday donated cash to the mother who gave birth to the first baby of the year at Lagos Island Maternity Hospital. Mrs. Adegbesan expressed happiness with the generous gesture of the club and prayed that God would continue to be with the members. In her speech, President, Rotary Club of Lagos Central, Rotn. Kikelomo Bello, said the essence of the event is to celebrate with mothers that put to bed on January 1. She added that the club had been extending the gesture for the past 36 years and would continue to do more. Expressing his appreciation, Dr. Eniayemon Ademuyiwa, Medical Director, Lagos Island Maternity, said: “I wish members of Rotary Club Lagos Central a prosperous new year. They have been our reliable partners way back and they are still with us.” The club also rewarded two dedicated members of staff of the hospital with plaques and cash prizes. Mrs. Salu Abike emerged best worker in Support Services Senior category and Mr. Adepegba Oluwafemi emerged the best worker Support Services, Junior Category.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .