Photo: Philip Ojisua Group warns Ndigbo over APC’s promises
Ohanaeze Youth Council (OYC) and other affiliate groups have said that leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the southeast have developed cold feet to openly campaign for President Muhammadu Buhari’s re-election for fear of being attacked by youths, especially Biafra agitators. In a statement after their meetings in Abakaliki, Ebonyi State, yesterday, the national president of OYC, Okechukwu Isiguzoro, noted that despite the assurances to Buhari that they would deliver, many of the leaders lost touch with Igbo voters because of many years of neglect. The statement added: “Ohanaeze youths will guarantee the safety of President Buhari and former Vice President Atiku Abubakar whenever they come to campaign in the southeast, as the Forum of Biafra Agitators has assured us that nobody would be attacked during this campaign period, irrespective of Operation Python Dance III. “We insist that Igbo leaders are deceiving both Buhari and Atiku, as many of them can no longer influence Igbo votes in their polling units or southeast generally.” Meanwhile, Coalition of Ethnic Nationalities Agenda for Atiku (CENTAA) has warned the Igbo community in Lagos not to fall for “the sweet talks” of APC governorship candidate, Babajide Sanwo-Olu. The coalition was reacting to Sanwo-Olu’s statement, while being honoured with an Igbo chieftaincy title at the National Stadium in Lagos recently, that one day an Igbo man would govern the state. CENTAA executive secretary, Adeoye Jolaosho, stated: “Simply put, these people do not believe in anyone but themselves and anyone who will sell their soul to satisfy their selfishness and corruption.” According to the group, Agbaje, who was made ‘Ezi Nwanne Ndigbo I’ in 2015, will not disappoint south easterners. CENTAA said: “Not only will PDP appoint Igbo people and other non-indigenes as commissioners in its cabinet come 2019, Ndigbo will also get board membership as well as special adviser positions. “APC will sweet-talk you, then use and dump you, like they have done to many people. Learn from your kinsman, Ben Akabueze, and uncountable individuals and groups whose trust these APC people have betrayed.” Warning that Lagos APC would only end up disappointing non-indigenes, CENTAA noted that the Igbo commissioner slot was withdrawn by the APC government as punishment for massively voting PDP in the last polls.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .