A Gynaecologist, Dr Adebayo Bamisebi, on Sunday advised women to get themselves vaccinated against sexually transmitted infection like genital warts, a disease caused by Human Papillomavirus (HPV). Bamisebi of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecologist, Ibeju-Lekki General Hospital, Akodo, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos that the virus was most prevalent in women. He spoke in commemoration of `Cervical Health Awareness Month’ usually celebrated every January. NAN reports that the `Cervical Health Awareness Month’ was designated by the United States Congress to raise awareness about how women can protect themselves from HPV and Cervical cancer. According to Bamisebi, Genital warts look like pieces of cauliflower. “The virus affects an average of about 1.5 million Nigerians annually. “HPV is sexually-transmitted and has various stereotypes; and because some of the stereotypes are associated with development of cervical cancer, these viruses are incriminating. “So I will recommend that young girls and women from age 13 and above should get themselves vaccinated against this virus. “The girls should be vaccinated before they become sexually-exposed because this virus, during intercourse, could get incorporated into the cells of the cervix. “Once it is incorporated into the cells of the cervix, it can develop into cervical cancer. That is why it is important for women to get the vaccination,’’ Bamisebi said. He also said that the disease was preventable, stressing the need for young women to avail themselves the opportunity of receiving the vaccination. According to the gynaecologist, the vaccination will protect women from future development of cervical cancer. He said that genital warts usually are skin coloured or whitish bumps that show up particularly in areas like the vulva, vagina, and cervix and around the cap of the penis of men and on the body. Bamisebi said that a woman could have one wart or a cluster of them and they could be big or small. He said the disease could also be diagnosable and treatable medically by burning the regions up with chemical. Bamisebi, however, said that not all bumps on the genitals were warts, saying that some were like moles, skin tags or small bumps found around the edge of the head of the male organ and the entrance of the female organ. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .