 Ezekwesili  According to the Presidential candidate who insisted that the nation has become stagnated economically today because of incompetent leadership, said she had what it takes to solve Nigeria’s complex challenges. The ACPN Presidential candidate spoke to journalists shortly after addressing women, youths, school children and people living with disabilities as she flagged off her presidential campaign in the state. She also addressed hundreds of traders at the Kaduna Central Market, where the candidate urged them to vote out bad leaders in order to save Nigeria. She said that Nigeria had no reason to be a failed state and that it was high time for people of good conscience to rescue her. According to her, she is in the race to safe Nigeria from being led by incompetent leaders, stressing that she is that candidate with competence and capacity to solve the complex problems that had eluded the country for too long. Her words: “When you are tired of mediocrity, the only person who you can think of is Oby Ezekwesili who is offering herself to lead. “We have  lacked  quality leadership in Nigeria. It doesn’t matter that all those that have governed us are men. It doesn’t make any different in quality of life of Nigerian person. “I am that candidate with competence and capacity to solve the complex problems that seem to have eluded us for so long. We cannot afford to have many more millions of Nigerians to join more than 87 million that are already poor. “What I need is that, this society must be mobilised immediately to see how we can come out of the whole failure and incompetency they have thrown us into.” On security, she said: “We will send signal to those that have been coming to our country to kill our people. Our government today act as if we are a weak country. Those people will get a signal that a new Sheriff is in town.” On economy, she said her government would be private sector driven economy as practice in other climes, adding: “We will run an economy that is well deregulated where private sector that suppose to be leading will lead. We will make sure that competitiveness and productivity as the hallmark of our private sector,” she declared.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .