 Minister of Planning and National Budget, Senator Udoma Udo Udoma  President Muhammadu Buhari has insisted that his administration has impacted positively on Nigerians.He promised to build on the momentum and do even more during his second term in office. Speaking at an event tagged “Testimonies of Change” yesterday in Abuja; Buhari said Nigerians could look forward to greater prosperity, more opportunities, and a continuation of growth that is diversified, inclusive and sustained. Buhari, who was represented by the Minister of Budget and National Planning, Senator Udo  Udoma, said: “Under my leadership, we will achieve the Nigeria of our dreams.” He described the programne as an excellent and innovative showcase of some of the numerous achievements of his administration, adding that it is a clear testimony that his government has impacted positively on the people of this country. Also speaking, Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed noted that Testimonies of Change was designed to showcase the achievements of the present administration.He disclosed that 9.2 million school children are fed once a day, five times in a week under the homegrown School Feeding programme, while over 90,000 cooks have been employed under the programme. He further disclosed that 500,000 graduates have been employed under the N-POWER programme, 2million Nigerians have benefitted fromTradermoni, and 350,000 beneficiaries from Marketmoni. The minister also cited the Abuja-Kaduna rail transportation, which carries thousands of people daily between the two cities, including retired Nigeria Airways and NITEL pensioners who had been paid their entitlements. Meanwhile, the Peoples Democratic Party Presidential Campaign Organisation (PPCO) has described  “President Muhammadu Buhari’s fixation on the success of its Presidential Candidate, Atiku Abubakar’s trip to the United States, as defeatist and smacking of a pre-defeat hallucination.” The PPCO, in a statement by its director, Kola Ologbondiyan, said: “The Buhari Presidency should hide its face in shame that after spending billions of naira in propaganda to stop the trip, Atiku Abubakar, freely traveled to the United States, where unlike President Buhari’s wasteful trips, he engaged in fruitful sessions with critical international business entities on ways to revamp our economy ruined by President Buhari.” The statement further claimed: “President Buhari and the APC were so disturbed about Atiku’s acceptance by the international community that they wasted billions of naira from the coffers of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) to organise a failed protest in the United State.”Today, Atiku Abubakar has a global support, unlike President Buhari, who, as a pariah President, has no friends all over the world.    This is the reason President Buhari has gone into frenzy over Atiku Abubakar’s global acceptance. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .