 Liverpool’s Egyptian midfielder Mohamed Salah (L) runs with the ball during the English Premier League football match between Liverpool and Crystal Palace at Anfield in Liverpool, north west England on January 19, 2019. Paul ELLIS / AFP  With second-placed Manchester City travelling to bottom of the table Huddersfield on Sunday, Liverpool seized the chance to tighten their grip on the title race. Jurgen Klopp’s side were pushed hard by Palace but Salah’s predatory instincts and a woeful mistake from Eagles keeper Julian Speroni ensured Liverpool improved their unbeaten home league run to 32 games. “He’s world class, simply world class, Klopp said of Salah. Liverpool’s haul of 60 points from 23 games tops the Reds’ previous best tally of 59, set at the same stage of the 1893-94 and 1987-88 campaigns. “It’s a massive relief. We knew for different reasons the game would be difficult,” Klopp added. “We had to stay positive, being one down is not a massive blow. We just needed to win the second half. “We have 60 points now. It’s crazy, it’s an important number. I’m really proud.” Palace, the last team to beat Liverpool in a Premier League game at Anfield, in April 2017, took a shock 34th minute lead. Wilfried Zaha picked out Andros Townsend, who drilled a crisp finish past Alisson Becker. Salah had been accused of diving by Palace players after a failed attempt to win a first-half penalty. But he exacted his revenge with an equaliser 60 seconds after the interval, the Egypt forward slotting in his 18th goal of the season after Virgil van Dijk’s shot deflected into his path. Liverpool went ahead in the 53rd minute when Brazilian striker Roberto Firmino, surrounded by defenders, still managed to unload a shot that deflected in off Palace’s Cheikhou Kouyate. James Tomkins out-jumped Fabinho to head Palace level in the 65th minute, yet Liverpool were gifted the crucial third 10 minutes later thanks to a howler from Speroni — at 39 the Premier League’s oldest player and making his first appearance since December 2017. James Milner’s cross prompted a nervous flap from Speroni, who tipped the ball high over his own head and Salah was on hand to convert on the line. Milner was sent off in the 89th minute for a second booking, but Liverpool made in four in stoppage-time through Sadio Mane before Max Meyer capped a frantic finale with Palace’s third. – Child’s play for Pogba –
At Old Trafford, Manchester United extended their superb form since interim manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer replaced the sacked Jose Mourinho. After a minute’s applause to mark the 25th anniversary of the death of United’s legendary manager Matt Busby, Solskjaer’s side took the lead in the 27th minute. Gaetan Bong conceded a penalty with a foul on Paul Pogba and the France midfielder stroked home the spot-kick for his 10th goal of the season. Pogba’s “rocking the baby” celebration was to mark him becoming a father for the first time, with his girlfriend Maria Salaues believed to have given birth this week. United winger Marcus Rashford marked his 150th game for the club with his side’s second goal in the 42nd minute. Rashford sent a superb finish into the far corner from a tight angle for his fourth goal in his last five games. Pascal Gross reduced the deficit in the 72nd minute, but United weren’t to be denied as they moved within three points of fourth placed Chelsea, who face Arsenal later on Saturday. Solskjaer, the first United boss to win his first six league games, has made an incredible impact since arriving from Molde. “I can’t complain can I? I am smiling and this is one of these things I will remember for the rest of my life,” Solskjaer said. “It’s been a roller coaster and it’s class to be here.” Newcastle climbed out of the relegation zone with a 3-0 win over Cardiff at St James’ Park that saw their opponents drop into the bottom three. Southampton boosted their bid to avoid relegation with a 2-1 victory against Everton at St Mary’s. Diogo Jota’s hat-trick piled pressure on Leicester manager Claude Puel as the Wolves midfielder’s last-gasp strike secured a thrilling 4-3 win. Bournemouth beat West Ham 2-0 with goals from Callum Wilson and Josh King, while Watford drew 0-0 against Burnley. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .