 Mr Ladi Lawanson, the Lagos State Commissioner for Transportation  The Commissioner for Transportation, Mr. Ladi Lawanson said this at a briefing for a workshop on road safety through continuous driver education slated for Tuesday 29, January 2019 being organised by the Ministry of Transportation in collaboration with the Lagos State Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI). 
 
Lawanson said the workshop is organized with the aim of improving the behavioural attitude of road users in the State through regular training and re-certification of all professional, commercial and private drivers. In light of these issues plaguing the transport sector, the ministry has adopted this angle amongst numerous initiatives to bring solutions to matters arising on the roads daily.
 
He highlighted that the Bus Reform Initiative and infrastructural investments will be a total waste if those who will be making use of them are not enlightened and educated on the rules and regulations guiding road use as well as the consequences of violations of these rules including proper driving skills and safety consciousness on their part.
 
He explained further that it is compulsory that corporate organizations, private company, road unions and individuals enrol their employees at Lagos State Drivers’ Institute (LASDRI) yearly for their re-certification after which they will be issued certificates of competence. Representing the Private Sector, the Director General, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), Mr. Muda Yusuf, explained that their collaboration with the Ministry of Transportation will ensure the participation of corporate bodies registered under the institute ranging from multinationals like Shell, to individual corporate bodies. He promised a robust turnout of 500 of its members at the workshop, while the Ministry will ensure the presence of Road Transport Union representatives active in different parts of the State. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .