Nobel Laureate, Prof. Wole Soyinka has stated that neither of the presidential candidates of All Progressives Congress (APC) nor Peoples Democratic Party, President Muhammadu Buhari and former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, would get his vote in the forthcoming election, saying, the two were worthy of rejection. “I, Wole Soyinka will not be voting for either of the two so-called contestants. I find both of them worthy of absolute rejection,” Soyinka said. “For a number of reasons, I will not go into that and I am not interested in comparative assessment, it is too late for that.” He stressed that the country is in urgent need of a new direction, adding that little wonder there were so many opposition parties to take over the wheel of governance. He spoke on Thursday at a press conference, tagged: “Civic choice in a time of Judicial penkelemes,” held in Lagos. The don disclosed that there was political coalition holding simultaneously in Lagos and Abuja presently, which, would produce a consensus candidate that would define his choice. Soyinka added that there was no need for Nigerians to be enslaved permanently with the old discredited order of politicians. He said: “My position is simply that it is time for a totally new direction, obviously I am not the only one otherwise there will not be so many opposition parties wanting to take over the reins of government. “As I am speaking there is a coalition having its meeting in Lagos, in which they hope to produce a consensus candidate, there is another group meeting in Abuja and at the end, they will send us their consensus candidate. “There are things going on in the background and there is need to change the direction of this nation in a positive way, and to make the public understand that they do not have to be enslaved permanently with the old discredited order. “I don’t believe in what is called negative vote, I believe instead in a creative vote, this is a will to sow a seed through your vote that will germinate eventually, the space of germination is beyond the control of everyone but it is never too early to make a beginning.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .