 Obi of Onitsha, Igwe Alfred Achebe (left); President Muhammadu Buhari and Anambra State Governor Willie Obiano, during Buhari’s campaign visit to the monarch in Onitsha…yesterday.  Buhari, who spoke while addressing the Obi of Onitsha, Alfred Achebe, traditional and religious rulers in the monarch’s palace in Anambra State during his campaign visit, defended the issues of marginalisation of South-East states, particularly in the security sector. He said his administration was fair to all regions since assumption of office on May 29, 2015. The President, who said his administration had done a lot in the provision of infrastructure for the entire South-East region, including Anambra State, said: “On the issue of infrastructure, a lot of you that are here know that the last time the Enugu/Onitsha Road was done was during the PTF days and it was also done again from Enugu to Port Harcourt. “Marginalisation of South-East. Well, I am please that you have the courage to present issues about your constituency but I expect you to be more patriotic in your presentation.” Also, he said his administration had successfully completed some projects in the South-East, particularly federal roads and started construction of the 2nd Niger Bridge valued at N302 billion in Anambra State, which was abandoned twenty years ago, the Zik Mausoleum and so on. He expressed satisfaction that too many employable youths were now gainfully employed from N-Power programme, assuring that more people, particularly women, would benefit from the government if re-elected for second term in office. Meanwhile, the President, in his eulogy while commissioning the historic Zik Mausoleum and Conference Centre built in honour of the late Zik of Africa and Nigeria’s first President, Dr. Nnmadi Azikiwe, said that rather than Zik choosing to be a local, he chose to be nationalistic and embraced all the vast territory of Nigeria. In his own speech, Anambra State Governor Willie Obiano said he felt fulfilled that the Great Owelle of Onitsha had finally been given the dignity he deserves in death. “I am happy that with the commissioning of this magnificent mausoleum, nna anyi Owelle can now rest with full honour and dignity that befit a statesman of his stature. “It is gratifying to finally see the true meaning of the line in our National Anthem that says “the labour of our heroes past shall never be in vain.” Meanwhile, as Buhari arrived Anambra State yesterday to campaign for support ahead the February 16 presidential elections, not everyone seems to be excited about his visit. In an open letter titled “Dear President, Welcome to Anambra- Your state of Campaign rallies” written by A resident of the state, Chima Christian, in an open letter titled, “Dear President, Welcome to Anambra – Your state of Campaign rallies, reminded the President of how long he had abandoned the state only to come to ask for votes. Chima in the letter sent to The Guardian in Abuja, said: “Your Excellency, before you came back to become an elected President of the Federal Republic, there were dozens of events that offered you compelling reasons to pay visit to the Light of the Nation, but you found excuses to stay away.” However, business and commercial activities were at a standstill yesterday in Onitsha as all roads and streets were closed for the President campaign rally. Also, commuters had to trek for long distances to get to their destinations, especially to main market, schools and offices following the blockade and diversions created by security operatives within the commercial city of Onitsha. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .