A chieftain of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and serial gubernatorial aspirant under the same platform in Kano, Engineer Bello Sani Gwarzo yesterday decamped to All Progressives Congress (APC). Engr. Bello dumped the major opposition along side all his political structures from across 44 local government just as about 250 political groups in the state merged with the Buhari support group as part of efforts to ensure an overwhelming victory of the President in the February, 16th election. In a grand reception held in Kano yesterday, to receive the decamped members, the former PDP loyalists, who declared their commitment to work assiduously under the “One 2 Tell 10, Buhari Support Group, described the president as the most suitable candidate to the next four years. Speaking at the occasion the Director General of the Engineer Bello Sani Gwarzo campaign Organisation, Alhaji Mika’ilu Koki, who described PDP has unfriendly and failed political platform saying Bello’s move to APC was borne out of viable policies and developmental programs initiated by present administration. Alhaji Koki lamented that their former party, PDP, is not in any way interested in addressing the plight of the common man as evidenced by its retrogressive policies occasioned by poor governance which had retarded the development of the country. He said PDP in the last 16 years have enriching themselves with common resources and making life worsen for the common man. “Barely three years of APC administration under President Muhammadu Buhari, the country has witnessed a steady national growth and economic stability, which is an indication of good governance and purposeful leadership. ” The massive developmental projects across the country is more than enough for president Buhari to have a second term in office because with the second coming, it will enable him continue and consolidate the gains of democracy”. Receiving the decamped members, the Director General of the One 2 Tell 10, Buhari Support Group, Dr. Abdullahi Baffa Bichi, congratulated the former PDP members for taking a wise decision. He said President Muhammadu Buhari is the much awaited messiah that Nigerians have been yearning for adding that those opposing and sabotaging Buhari were ingrate. He said Buhari’s greatest concern was how to bailout Nigeria out of the doldrums, to make life comfortable for every Nigerian. This, he however said could only be feasible with the support of the electorates; by electing only credible and honest representatives at all levels. Dr. Baffa, who is also the Executive Secretary of Tertiary Education Trust Fund, said Nigeria at this crucial time needs the like of President Muhammadu Buhari to fight corruption and take Nigeria to the NEXT level of advanced economy. He said “We are all living witness to the improved security in our land, massive improvement in the area of power generation; improved infrastructural development through road construction, rail lines, poverty alleviation scheme, improved agricultural activities, sound economic policies and many more.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .