Oby Ezekwesili, the presidential candidate of the Allied Congress Party of Nigeria (ACPN) shocked Nigerians in the early hours of Thursday after announcing that she was withrawing from the 20129 presidential race. Although she was not a hugely popular candidate, Ezekwesili had a conviction that she could upset the status quo. In an exclusive interview with Guardian Life in November, the former presidential candidate was very much upbeat about her chances of defeating the incumbent president Muhammadu Buhari, whom she said has performed woefully. Below is an excerpt from that interview: “This is a Nigeria under President Muhammadu Buhari where the primacy of the human life has been completely devalued…life is cheapened,” she said. “The problem though is that the intention and the outcome are diverged,” she added. “The lives of Nigerians today are not any better because President Buhari became our president. As a matter of fact, the quality of lives has taken a significant beaten,” she told Tonye Bakare, editor, online,  Guardian Nigeria. “The odds are staggering. But she insists that the “fight” for “a new independence from our rapacious ruling class” is winnable. She is very much convinced that she represents millions of Nigerians who are disenchanted by years of failure of the current and past administrations. “I am not running alone,” she says with a definite conviction. “We are all running. This contest is between the political class that has failed over and over against the Nigerian people and the Nigerian people.” But in a country where the voting public is easily ingratiated by quick and fleeting political favours and an entrenched political culture that has done little to curb electoral malpractices, how she will able to best her opponents is yet to be seen. It is impossible that Ezekwesili is unaware of these odds. Yet, she brims with the hope that her dream of repositioning Nigeria for a greater good will be realised. I am the candidate of the people,” she remarks. Read up the full interview here