 Jimi Agbaje, PDP Lagos candidate  In his New Year message, Wike implored Rivers State people to work towards ensuring that their votes count during the 2019 general elections and urged the security agencies and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to allow the will of the people to prevail. He said though the 2018 had several challenges but encouraged the people to march into 2019 with renewed hope for greater accomplishments. The governor stated that no part of the state would be left behind in the ongoing development process. In a similar vein, the standard-bearer of Lagos State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the 2019 governorship election, Mr. Jimi Agbaje, has charged the INEC to ensure it delivers free, fair and credible elections. In his New Year message yesterday, Agbaje said Nigerians would be proud to have the 2019 polls as the truest reflection of their will. According to him: “We pray for peaceful polls in 2019, but peaceful elections can only happen when the majority people believe that the conduct and results of the electoral process accurately reflect their collective will as expressed through the ballots. “The whole world has its focus on Nigeria’s 2019 elections as they would determine whether 2015’s smooth and seamless transition was a fluke or the confirmation of the country’s truly democratic credentials. “INEC must deliver credible and commendable elections and this means that the commission must assert its independence and resist all attempts by unscrupulous individuals and interests to falsify results and rig elections.” He asked Lagosians to keep hope alive that their bondage of 19 years of misgovernment would be terminated with the coming year, saying: “My message to Lagosians is that their freedom lies in their own hands. “We must celebrate 2019 as the year that Lagos will break loose from impunity, misgovernment and under-development. And Lagosians must themselves make this happen, not only by voting, but by protecting their votes from the cabal that believes that it has the electoral formula.” He, therefore, urged all Rivers people to use 2019 to re-affirm their support for his administration during the elections and chart a new direction at the national level. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .