Adekunle Gold performing at the One Lagos Fiesta The Eko Atlantic City was the place to be recently, as fun loving Lagosians thronged the venue for the grand finale of the One Lagos Fiesta. Powered by Star Lager beer, the concert aims at celebrating the yuletide season, as well as Lagos State’s culture and heritage.There was also the most fantastic fireworks display bringing the shine to the event. Designed to bring excitement, energy and entertainment, the eight-day, non-stop, celebration featured great live performances and special appearances from Nigeria’s biggest music stars at the different venues in Lagos. From the Eko Atlantic City to Ikeja, Badagry, Ikorodu and Epe, music lovers and tourists gathered at the venues from December to January 1, 2018, to celebrate a very exciting year. A night of music, arts and culture, the night at the Eko Atlantic witnessed energetic performances from veteran Juju act, Sunny Ade, who treated the crowd to his vintage sound. On the other hand, indigenous rapper, Olamide, Fuji maestro, Pasuma, Burna Boy, Teni, Humble Smith, Adewale Ayuba, Osupa Saheed, Mr P, Mr Real and others all got slots to entertain the crowd till the early hours of the New Year. The Governor of Lagos State, Akinwunmi Ambode, alongside key public figures, were also present to ring in the New Year, making it his last participation at the fiesta as Governor of Lagos State. Commending all the efforts put together by sponsors, Ambode encouraged Lagosians to continue the New Year in positivity even as the elections approach. “I am quite excited to be celebrating the end of such a remarkable year with the people of Lagos State. I am also impressed and happy that our citizens fully participated in the celebrations across the five zones and that in spite of unfortunate possibilities, Lagosians have conducted themselves responsibly and no untoward incident has happened.” Also speaking at the event, the Marketing Director, Nigerian Breweries Plc., Emmanuel Oriakhi, appreciated the Lagos State Government as well as the opportunity given to Star to be a part of One Lagos Fiesta, “We are grateful to the Lagos State Government for this opportunity. We take pride in delivering highly engaging and memorable moments to our consumers nationwide, and we are determined to keep upgrading experiences for our fans through the One Lagos Fiesta. We have a few more exciting activities lined up for fans this new year and we are truly delighted to be part of the festivities”. Like in previous editions, Star Lager’s presence was felt in all five the locations, as they were all fully equipped with entertainment, ice cold Star Lager Beer and delicious canapes. In addition to the refreshments, Lagosians also had access to a variety of Star themed games as well as raffle draws and giveaways to end each night. The brand also ran a promo tagged #YouTooCanShine, where 30 lucky winners won N50,000 each by creating 30 – 60 seconds videos singing any song with the videos with the highest number of likes winning the cash prizes. Expressing his delight, one of the lucky winners, Ayomide Sotayo, said, “I am very happy to have won this prize tonight. I entered the competition not expecting to win but I’m glad I’m shining now!! I can’t wait for next year!” Tapping into the traditional Lagos lifestyle, the brand also built a massive 58 feet tall Aro Meta Statue built out of over 3,000 Star crates, with a Star LED screen base. The Aro Meta connects to Star’s core message of bringing people together to enjoy the brighter life. Star is the premium beer brand that welcomed Lagos into the brewing and enjoyment world when it was introduced into the Nigerian market on June 2, 1949 as the first indigenously brewed beer in a market that was dominated by imported brands. Speaking on the brand’s commitment to the festive season, Oriakhi stated that, “Star Lager beer is committed to providing the best entertainment offering to its consumers. It’s been a wonderful yuletide season and our goal since we commenced our partnerships with some of the biggest events this December, was to bring our shine to Nigerians’ celebrations and we’re glad we did that and much more. Next year will be even bigger and better.” As a result of the brand’s successful entertainment initiatives in the country, it has become a reference point for corporate sponsorships and development of homegrown entertainment in Nigeria.