 Rashidi Ladoja  This was contained in a statement made available to newsmen by Oyo ADC publicity secretary, Adedapo Ademola, in Ibadan yesterday. The party was reacting to an interview Ladoja granted to a private radio station in Oke-Ogun narrating the reason for his exit from ADC. “Without a shadow of doubt, the series of coordinated attacks against our party, the African Democratic Congress (ADC), and by extension, our governorship candidate, Senator Olufemi Lanlehin, by former Governor Rasidi Ladoja is most unfortunate, and has shown to us the undercurrents that led to his eventual exit from our party. “While we do not begrudge him for taking whatever decision he deems best for his political future, we consider it impolitic for him to continue in his unwarranted campaign of calumny against our party, citing non-existent issues and cooking up bare-faced lies to whip up sentiments in the public square. “To go on air, the latest of which was his rant on Gravity FM, claiming ‘when we saw that we couldn’t persuade them to do the right thing, we decided to leave the party because we aren’t sure of its future’ is not only misleading but grossly unfair. “We like to ask governor Ladoja what he means by ‘doing the right thing’ and what other right thing he’s talking about, when he was indeed responsible for nominating 16 out of 32 House of Assembly candidates, four of 14 House of Representatives candidates and one senatorial candidate, not minding the existence five formidable blocs within the ADC,” he stated. According to the party, not considering all this, and continuing to frontally attack the ADC is most uncharitable, when the party and its candidate have consistently avoided any confrontation with him. “Isn’t it surprising, or is it a mere coincidence that while Senator Ladoja was on air in Igboho, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo was in Saki same day? Isn’t the plan a well-coordinated and carefully planned one in the mode of ‘Osinbajo buying votes using their unpopular Tradermoni Scheme and Ladoja denigrating the ADC, which has grown to become the state’s leading opposition, and only credible alternative platform?” the party added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .