Senator Gbenga Ashafa PHOTO: TWITTER/ NIGERIAN SENATE A lawmaker representing Lagos East in the upper chamber of the National Assembly, Senator Gbenga Ashafa, has appealed to Nigerians to re-elect President Muhammadu Buhari and his vice, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, in the next general election. He said Nigerians should allow the incumbent a second term in office for the sake of continuity in the country; stressing that the 2019 elections would not only be free, fair and credible but would also be violence-free contrary expectations in some quarters. He said the administration of Buhari and Osinbajo set to work since 2015 trying to correct the monumental flaws in our polity, adding, “This government has brought us out of a recession foisted upon us due to years of monumental failure in governance at the centre. Gradually but surely, the incumbent administration has focused on completing critical infrastructure projects across the country with particular focus on rail, agriculture, power, works and housing as well as the fight against insurgency and corruption amongst others.” He said Buhari’s government has made tremendous achievements in social investment programmes and this is the first time in a long while, Nigerians have returned to ferrying people, goods and services on our revamped railway routes with several others nearing completion like the Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge line to be completed in 2019. On power generation, Ashafa also commended Buhari for having doubled power generation from 3,500 MW in 2015 to about 7,000 MW at the end of 2018. The lawmaker also appraised Governor Akinwunmi Ambode for consolidating on the work done by his predecessors, Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Mr. Babatunde Raji Fashola, in ensuring that Lagos remains the leading light and centre of excellence. “ Now that the baton is about to be passed to Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the standard bearer of the party in the next governorship election, who has a proven track record of service and reform the task ahead of us in 2019 is to support him,” he said. The lawmaker also appealed to the electorate in Lagos East to ensure that the same spirit of continuity of effective representation continues by voting for Mr. Bayo Osinowo, who is the APC senatorial candidate in the zone for the 2019 election. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .