 A cross section of guests at the YEEP conference in Abuja  Held under the theme Star Now, the event was targeted at promoting the spirit of entrepreneurship among Nigerian youths, as no fewer than 30 young people with interesting business ideas and plans were empowered with grants, which will be disbursed soon. Speaking at the event, the convener and founder of Activate Success International Foundation Love Idoko, said, “To wait until you are old to pursue your dream is to waste the person that you are. We all have only one life to live, therefore, we must give it our best shot.” The event planner and life coach urged young people to imbibe an entrepreneurial approach to life as a way of channeling a lustrous path for the future.The one-day event, which was sponsored by Nestle, Airtel, School Me Lottery, Belanova Apartments, 2 BaBa Foundation, Sapphire Scents, Crown Allied and BBB Media, brought in an array of successful Nigerian entrepreneurs, who breathed inspiration into the minds of the youths as they relayed their stories so far in the entrepreneurial world. Aside their practical and life-infusing tales, the resource persons shared information on how to be successful. Among the panelists were Bassey Eyo, CEO Pay Porte; Dr Ola Brown, founder Flying Doctors West Africa; George Okoro, an award-winning photographer; Adewale Aladejana, CEO Sapphire Scents; Onyeka Akumah, CEO Farm Crowdy; Seyi Adekunle, CEO Vodi Tailors; Ogwa Iweze, CEO DZYN; Ucy Rochas, an entrepreneur and humanitarian; Tosan Jemide, Africa’s top celebrity baker. There was also special guest appearance by 2face Idibia, alongside Nollywood filmmaker and legislator Desmond Elliott and Namure Ediomioya, G.M AIT network operations.The event was barraged by multifarious sessions ranging from lectures and symposia, media presentations, panel sessions to entertainment sessions, as music artistes Eljoe, Naomee, alongside Bash, a sensational oral poet, added flair to the evening. Besides, cash prices of N200,000 will be given to 30 youths, whose business ideas are selected and will be empowered to start their business.
   
The National Youth Entrepreneurship and Empowerment programme, YEEP is a brainchild of Love Idoko, whose desire is to help people discover their talents as well as purpose and to fan them to maximization.“I was there and I loved every moments of it. My life will never remain the same again. God bless the good work that you are doing,” one of the attendants, Sylvia, said. “It is incredible what you can learn from torch bearers in the business world, how an amazing platform such as your can change your life. It was such an honor to be part of this,” said Angela O. “Thank you and all the speakers for inspiring us. Thank you for the platform, the words and the opportunity,” Ochi enthused.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .