 President/Chief Executive, Dangote Industries Limited, Aliko Dangote (left); National Best Performing Customer, Dangote Foods, Ali Balarabe, (Ali Balarabe & Sons); Executive Director Commercial, Dangote Flour Mills Plc; Halima Aliko Dangote; and Chairperson, NASCON Allied Industries Plc, Yemisi Ayeni, at the Dangote Foods (Sugar, Salt & Flour) Gala Nite, held in Lagos.  The management Dangote Foods on Monday, in Lagos, doled out millions of Naira in financial rewards, in addition to all expenses paid trips to Dubai, in appreciation of their loyalty and faithful patronage for the year 2018.The award dinner, which held at the Convention Centre of the Eko Hotel, Victoria Island, saw 54 winners emerged from the geopolitical regions, while others won in the national and other categories. Alhaji Ali Balarabe of Balarabe & Sons, emerged the overall best performing customer in the national category for the second consecutive time. In her welcome address, Chairman of NASCON Allied Industries, Mrs. Yemisi Ayeni, who described the customers as “the most important part of our business,” said the recognition of this symbiotic partnership formed the theme of the award ceremony; ‘Better. Stronger. Together.’ She explained that the event was to honour customers, who made it possible for Dangote Foods products to be the preferred choice in all households. “Your continuous patronage over the years demonstrates your confidence in our product range; sugar, flour and salt. You have helped to create awareness for Dangote Foods products across the six geopolitical regions. This has led to increased consumption of our products in the regions,” she added. President/Chief Executive, Dangote Industries Limited, Aliko Dangote, in his remarks, said the award was to appreciate customers and distributors, who through their dogged and persistent efforts had made Dangote Foods products a household name in Nigeria.He said: “You are all aware that we are celebrating 2018 against all odds. Our Food businesses recorded mixed results in the year with NASCON growing, while Dangote Sugar Refinery, and Dangote Flour Mill had a very difficult year. Fluctuations in performance are known to occur in the life of businesses but the greater part is that you persevered with us. My special commendation goes to Dangote Sugar and Pasta customers, who, despite the price challenges posed by influx of unlicensed and substandard grey imports stood by us. “We have remained the dominant brand in most of the sectors where we play in the food sector, and we are delighted to have you as our partners through thick and thin.”He disclosed that the company invested massively in the sugar sector across the country in line with its Backward Integration Project targeted at the production of 1.5 million metric tonnes per annum of refined sugar in the next 10 years. Dangote said the challenges would soon become history as investment in the sugar sector would soon create between 75,000 to 150,000 jobs, price reductions and improved profits to customers.He commended the customers for enduring the Apapa gridlock that caused delay to product delivery and increased cost to business. “To reduce the traffic gridlock, we invested significantly in the Apapa road reconstruction project and the completion in 2019 should bring massive relief to our three food companies as well as our competitors operating from the axis,” he said. He recalled that in 2018, he had disclosed plans for new investments in NASCON Allied Industries aimed at boosting efficiency and better returns. “Today, NASCON, after a strong 2018, has continued to roll out several culinary innovations such as curry, stew mix, soup mix and different seasoning flavors to satisfy consumer demands,” he said. The industrialist noted that Dangote Flour Mills had a four-prong strategy – expanding capacity, innovating to attract more user groups, upgrading capabilities and enhancing product portfolio. Dangote said the company’s goal for 2019 is to continue to delight its customers, bakers, confectioners and consumers all over the country, saying it would result in stronger growth and sustenance of all its business units.He said the company’s investments, which include the $12 billion Ibeju-Lekki refinery & fertilizer projects would address Nigeria’s agriculture and energy needs. In his appreciation remarks, Alhaji Ali Balarabe of Balarabe & Sons, the overall best performing customer in the national category thanked God for an excellent year in which he emerged tops for the second consecutive time as the top distributor. He also thanked Dangote for the long years of maintaining the cordial relationship between the two companies. He stated that a lot of young people are venturing into the food distribution business with Dangote Foods which he described as a welcome development as it would the number of jobless youths roaming the streets. He tasked the youths not to relent but put in more efforts as no gain comes with ease.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .