Techpoint Build West Africa 2019 kicked off last month in Lagos, with the announcement of 12 startups taking the stage to pitch for $10,000 equity-free prize money at the Pitch Storm stage. Pitch Storm happens to be one of the core segments of Techpoint Build, where selected startups get to pitch to a panel of judges. For Pitch Storm 2019, the best amongst the best have been chosen from countries across West Africa. According to TechPoint Africa, the startups were carefully selected from a pool of entries and were judged based on visible traction, a well-identified customer base and solid revenue. As part of preparations towards the Pitch Storm, the startups will attend a boot camp where they will receive intensive coaching from facilitators, refine their pitches, business models, and hone presentation skills. The 12 finalists are Oniriq (Senegal), which prides itself in combining solar with digital technologies. A typical Oniriq device (Solarbox) offers solar energy to off-grid populations, high-speed internet, IPTV, 24-inch TV set and three sets of lamps for a monthly subscription fee. Agro fish farm (Sierra Leone) is addressing the issue of malnutrition by providing digitally bred table-sized fishes and fingerlings as commercially viable alternatives to regular fishes in the country. Keiwa (Côte d’Ivoire) offers a unique proposition of providing a simple and accessible management tool while promoting access to financial products. Codetrain (Ghana) trains young individuals on how to code and then matches them to reputable tech companies across the continent. The others are Power stove (Nigeria) is a social enterprise that innovates smart energy products and services that improve lives on a global scale. They’ve developed a product line of smart clean cooking technologies that is smokeless, said to cook food 5x faster, while reducing fuel use by 70%, and eliminating toxic emissions. Wellnewme (Nigeria) is working to prevent the risk factors that are responsible for cardiovascular diseases and stroke (which presumably are the leading causes of deaths) amongst adults in Nigeria. They are able to assess the health risks of individuals using an algorithm approach that spans physical, psychosocial and environmental domains and provide advice on all the key drivers of well-being, health and productivity. Estate Intel Limited (Nigeria) is trying to build the Bloomberg Terminal for African real estate, because of the perceived lack of centralised and actionable data on the most important commercial real estate market indicators for effective decision-making. Foodlocker (Nigeria), a foodstuff/grocery (eCommerce/retail) startup based in Ibadan, juxtaposes both traditional and contemporary commerce. Natterbase (Nigeria) is a talent accelerator platform that enables companies to hire and manage developers from anywhere in the world to meet their software needs. The final three are HelpMum (Nigeria), a maternal and child healthcare organisation that combats women and child health challenges in Africa. It sells inexpensive, sterilised birth kits containing 11 essential supplies required at childbirth to ensure a clean, safe and hygienic delivery. HubbonNG (Nigeria) is simply building an Uber for Logistics. Its solution to logistics is 3-fold; an on-demand delivery booking platform, a business directory and a Logistics Management System and Spunvertek Enterprise (Nigeria), a renewable energy technology developer that has supposedly innovated the only sustainable solar water pump inverter that can power any type of conventional submersible and surface water pump for irrigation farming, public and community water supply and livestock.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .