Dr. Christopher Kolade Founder, board members and partners of Christopher Kolade Foundation (CKF), have pledged continuous support in promoting girl-child education particularly in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM), saying it is the controlling factor of the future. According to the stakeholders who spoke at the second edition of the SHE Science & Technology Fair (SHE Fair 2.0) in Lagos, getting the girls actively involved in STEM will not only stimulate their interest in the subject, it will also enable them to tap into greater opportunities that abound therein. The founder, Dr. Christopher Kolade stated that it was this realisation that made the organisation focus the attention of the girl- child on STEM. He said the society would benefit enormously in the short and long term, since the wellbeing of a girl-child is significant to the nation’s growth and urged the girls to blaze the trail and gallantly penetrate the male-dominant field, and help liberate the country. He said, “STEM is the language of the future, the world will use it to establish the track record till tomorrow. If we get it right in science and technology, it will not only make Nigeria a great nation, it will push us out of the third world ladder and underdevelopment. What we are doing today will qualify and position us to lead the world tomorrow. So young girls, you need greater energy and intellectuality to make a great impact.” Other speakers include the deputy governor of Lagos State, Dr. Idiat Oluranti Adebule, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Office of the Deputy Governor, Yetunde Odejayi; Managing Director, Siemens, Onyeche Tifase; Founder W-TEC, Ore Somolu-Lesi; Founder, Pearl Recycling, Olamide Ayeni-Babajide; Country Director, Andela Nigeria, Omowale David Ashiru; Sales Leader, Dealer Business West Africa, Cummins West Africa, Margaret Ajiboye, among others. They urged stakeholders to through science programmes change the mindset of girls and demystify the notion that science is for boys only. They said science is the enabler for successful countries in the future, thus Nigeria must sit up or be left behind. Urging the participants to help change the narratives of the country and turn around its declining Gross Domestic Product (GDP). CKF’s Managing Consultant, Omobola Lana, said the programme, which was designed for public school girls, has impacted about 582 girls so far. She said the foundation works in partnership with Lagos State Ministry of Education. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .