 Edgar  Speaking with The Guardian, the victim said the police and the officials of the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA) had organised a joint task force to rob Nigerians under the bridge that leads to mile 12. He said: “As I drove under the bridge to negotiate a turning towards the old toll gate, the police man jumped out from his hiding and pointed a gun at me and ordered me to a stop. He stood in front of my car and summoned me to open the doors. Initially, I was calm because there was a police post in front of us and I suspected that they would be from there. “One of them entered the car and asked me to drive forward. At that point, another three jumped into my car with one in LASTMA uniform. I was asked to step out of my car and negotiate with one of them. As I did, one of them took control of the car. I realised that I was about to be robbed so, I thought of running away. The LASTMA official said I should calm down that we would negotiate. “They asked me to enter the back seat but I refused. I begged they should allow me drive. They agreed and said I should drive towards Ikorodu. As we went they requested for N180, 000 and threatened I would end up in a park in Ikorodu. With all the talks on rituals and happenings in Lagos, I quickly entered into negotiation and we agreed for N90k. “By this time, their boss was following up from their base. He insisted on the initial amount. I was afraid of kidnap and I started begging for my freedom, by this time we were headed towards Ikorodu and I had started to panic. At the end, we agreed on N90, 000 They followed me to a UBA branch and I found myself withdrawing the money and I gave the money to them after which they released me and walked away”. After The Guardian spoke with the Lagos State Police Public Relation officer, Chike Oti, he swung into action, recovered N50, 000 from the police and arrested two of the culprit. Chike said, “despite our efforts, some elements still want to continue dragging our image in the mud”. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .