Nigeria’s deputy Senate president Ike Ekweremadu has denied insinuations that there was an ongoing crisis within members of the  People’s Democratic Party (PDP). “While I refuse to be distracted by such cheap blackmail, smear campaign, and extreme propaganda, it is important to reassure our supporters that the PDP is united and focused on wresting power from the All Progressives Congress, APC,” Ekweremadu said in a statement. “My attention has been drawn to the orchestrated attempts by some characters to create the impression of a divided house in Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in the coming presidential election. Such characters dish out fake and divisive stories without a source on a daily basis and attribute same to me.” Prior to his statement, Ekweremadu was rumoured to have fallen out with the leaders of the party after its presidential primary election. His purported sidelining was fuelled when his name was absent on the PDP presidential campaign council. He has also not attended any of its campaign rallies. However, Ekweremadu said he stands with the PDP in its quest to unseat current president and the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 2019 general elections. “I made it clear that I would stand by the party, no matter what. It took other party stakeholders and I a lot of efforts, sacrifices, soul-searching, and painstaking negotiations to hold the party together and rebuild it. If I did not abandon the PDP at its darkest hour, it does not make the slightest sense to say that I abandoned it now that its sun is rising again,” Ekweremadu said Ekweremadu stated that he has held “separate meetings with our Vice Presidential candidate, Peter Obi and the Chairman, South East Governors Forum, Dave Umahi, to work out strategies for the success of our party and candidates in the coming elections – to continue to strategise on the coming elections.” He urged PDP “supporters not to be distracted by such propaganda as we approach the critical stages in the coming elections. We should rather focus on delivering the votes to ensure the success of our party.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .