A political party formed by Imo State governor Rochas Okorocha, Action Alliance (AA), has withdrawn its support for Nigerian president Muhammadu Buhari and adopted presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party Atiku Abubakar for the February 16 election. “We are for Atiku/Obi leadership and we are glad to work with all believers of true federalism and efficient administration of governance at all levels to accomplish this as we approach the forthcoming elections,” AA national chairman Kenneth Udeze said at a press conference in Abuja. Okorocha had been at loggerheads with the APC leadership after his anointed successor and son-in-law Uche Nwosu lost the APC governorship ticket. Nwosu lost the governorship ticket to a serving lawmaker, Senator Hope Uzodinma, who is representing Orlu constituency of Imo State in the Nigerian Senate Okorocha then announced that Nwosu would seek his governorship ambition on the platform of AA, but will still support Buhari’s re-election. Udeze, however, said, “the National Executive Committee (NEC) of our party is on the same page concerning our support for Atiku, same with all our state chapters in this matter.” “We hereby restate out position through this medium that AA as a certified and active member of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) have not for a moment reconsidered or wished to alter that position. Okorocha is, however,  a member of the ruling All Progressives Congress. Udeze explained that the party’s decision to adopt Atiku Abubakar was under the CUPP agreement. “For your information, AA moved the motion for the adoption of Atiku as the Presidential Candidate of CUPP, and we are on it to the end,” Udeze said the support for Abubakar and his running mate, Peter Obi, was support for the growth of the country’s democracy and the required restructuring of the country. Okorocha formed the AA in 2005 and planned to run for president on its platform in the 2007 elections. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .