Young Progressives Party (YPP) presidential candidate Kingsley Moghalu on Wednesday was endorsed for president by the Northern States Christian Youths Forum (NSCYF). NSCYF national president Paul Adamu in a statement said, “the endorsement has become necessary in recognition of your intellectual, quality, professional ingenuity and political dexterity, as well as your tremendous administrative acumen, skills and sagacity.” The group president said it had looked forward to the day of endorsing Moghalu for president in the February 16 election with hope and faith as a “god-fearing front man with courage and stamina.” Adamu assured Moghalu of the support of the group’s members in North-west, North-central and North-east regions of the country. Reacting after the endorsement, Moghalu promised not to disappoint the group and other Nigerians who believe in his candidacy. Moghalu, a former deputy governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), said the endorsement was a recognition of his desire to build a better Nigeria. “We have started this movement and we don’t intend to stop. The Nigeria we desire can only be a reality when we support and accept that a fundamental change,” Moghalu said in a post on his Facebook page. “I was endorsed by the Northern States Christian Youths Forum. Thank you for recognising and appreciating our desire to build a nation better than our past.” “Once again, I thank the Northern States Christian Youths Forum for your endorsement and support. It is Time,” Moghalu said. Moghalu faces the challenge of defeating incumbent president Muhammadu Buhari of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), as well as opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) candidate Atiku Abubakar, who was Nigeria’s vice president between 1999 till 2007 in the presidential election. However, Moghalu, who have expressed displeasure and criticised the two major parties, PDP and APC, said a “revolution needs to take place.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .