The NFF believes year 2019 will be a good one for Nigeria’s senior national teams’ fans. Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) believes the country’s men and women senior national teams, Super Eagles and Super Falcons will restore their fans’ belief in the country’s football with their performances in their respective international championships this year. While the Super Eagles will compete at the 2019 African Nations Cup, the Super Falcons, who re-established their dominance in the continent’s football with victory at the Ghana 2018 African Women Nations Cup, will feature at the FIFA Women World Cup, in France. NFF Secretary General, Mohammed Sanusi told The Guardian that the federation was working round the clock to ensure the teams are ready for the competitions when the time comes. He revealed that the NFF has started mapping out strategies with the male and female national team coaches on the camping arrangements for the teams, adding that the federation has also started arranging friendly matches with top countries for the teams. He added that NFF was working on revamping grassroots football across the country, saying the results would start manifesting soon. “The NFF is planning with Rohr on getting the right countries to play friendlies with ahead of the 2019 Nations Cup. “The Super Eagles is a popular brand and many countries are eager to play against the team. But we have to focus on getting the right opponents that would aid the success of the team at the AFCON. “Part of the strategy to ensure we have a strong team for the AFCON is to play with all the players likely to feature in the competition min every game, including forthcoming qualifier against Seychelles in Asaba. This is because such games would help Rohr test his players on various formations ahead of the competition.” On the Super Falcons, Sanusi said the “NFF has started making arrangements for the girls to play quality tune up games ahead of the World Cup. “The Falcons will feature in the World Cup this year and because of that, the NFF will give the players and coaches the best assistance in the championship. We want the Falcons to be ready for the big teams with the necessary experience before the World Cup.” Meanwhile, the NFF has confirmed that Super Eagles’ international friendly against Egypt in March will hold at the Stephen Keshi Stadium in Asaba. The Egypt FA had confirmed on December 20 that the Pharaohs would play the Super Eagles after Egypt’s final 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier in Niger. After finalising details with the Delta State Government, the NFF concluded that the fixture, set for March 26, would hold at the ground named after the country’s most successful coach, Stephen Keshi. It comes four days after Nigeria’s Nations Cup game with visiting Seychelles at the same venue.
Nigeria, the three-time African champions, last played in Asaba six weeks ago when they were held to a 0-0 friendly draw by the Cranes of Uganda. Africa’s most decorated nation, Egypt and Nigeria met in 2017 Nations Cup qualifying with the Pharaohs earning a 1-1 draw away from home before winning 1-0 in Alexandria to qualify for the finals ahead of the Super Eagles. It will be the 18th meeting between the two sides with Nigeria holding the upper-hand having won seven times to Egypt’s five with another five matches drawn.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .