 [FILES] Presidential candidate of the Nigeria’s opposition party Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Atiku Abubakar speaks during a campaign rally in Ilorin, north-central Nigeria, on December 5, 2018. – Presidential candidate of the Nigeria’s opposition party Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Atiku Abubakar and Vice Presidential candidate Peter Obi launch their political campaign ahead of the 2019 general elections on December 5, 2018. (Photo by PIUS UTOMI EKPEI / AFP)  The former Vice President made the call yesterday in Abuja at a Special Women Conference for Atiku with the theme “Call for Action”.The PDP Women who trooped out in their numbers caused human and vehicular traffic around Chida Hotel and the entire Jabi axis where the event took place. Different women groups adorned in different PDP attire and proudly displaying PDP flag locked down the entire district for hours as only a fraction of them could find a place in the Chida Event Centre.Addressing the crowd, Atiku who was accompanied by his three wives explained that his three decades in politics had exposed to him the commitment of women to nation building and how effective they can be if given political responsibilities.He said, “This year makes it 30 years of my consistent engagement in politicking. I have come to realise that women are the most active voters even when voting was done by lining up behind a candidate. “You are not going to be in the other room, I promise you. You have seen my wives here, they are not in the other room, and they are in the front.”Also in his remarks, the National Chairman of PDP, Prince Uche Secondus who was also accompanied by his wife pointed out the difference between Atiku and the incumbent President.He said, “the incoming President is energetic, he is resourceful, he is industrious. Governance demands 24 hours concentration and if you are not energetic, you will outsource the presidency. “When he wins, Atiku will sit in his office to attend to the needs of the country and will not outsource anything”Also, the Director General of PDP Presidential Campaign Organization, Senator Bukola Saraki equally accompanied by his wife told the women that they are naturally gifted to carry out a course to its logical conclusion when determined unlike men that are distracted along the line.Earlier in her address, PDP Woman leader, Hajia Marian Umar Waziri stated that the 2019 election is another opportunity to rescue the country from suffering, division, hunger and killings which women are often victims. While presenting the “Call to Action” template, Haija Aisha Gambo unveiled the strategy to be adopted by women for canvassing for votes. She told women to go out and speak because when women speak, in the market, churches, family meetings people listen. In her goodwill message, Mrs Margret Peter Obi, wife of the PDP said that any politician that has no business with women would have a problem, stressing that any thing endorsed by women excels. She called on women to come out en mass and vote for Atiku for guaranteed jobs, security, and food on the table and to get Nigeria working again. Senator Zainab Kure asserted that women should be allotted 40 per cent position instead of 30 per cent because they are the ones to take care of the home front.Also Speaking, Dr. Jamila Atiku Abubakar, one of the wives of the PDP Presidential Candidate called on women for action saying it’s time to move from chanting and dancing to action since the actual dance will take place on May 29.She said that it is time to ‘Atikulate’ Nigeria for better job, food, healthcare system, education, better business environment as both Atiku and Obi have pledged to provide opportunities for business growth and development.She called on women to educate each other on proper voting for the PDP and see themselves as Amazon of democracy.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .