We hear wedding bells! Four months after Justin Bieber and Hailey Baldwin got married in a NYC courthouse, they are reportedly set to have a grand wedding. According to a report by Page Six, the Canadian singer and American supermodel will finally celebrate their marriage with family and friends on February 28. It is learnt that the Biebers have sent “Save The Date” cards for their epic bash, although a location was not specified. It is interesting to nore that February 28 happens to be one day before Justin’s birthday. It is also gathered that dancers are already rehearsing for the grand wedding and Justin’s “personal DJ,” Tay James, will be playing music at the bash. Hailey Baldwin and Justin Bieber attend New York Fashion Week together. Photo: Toronto Star According to celebrity gossip publication, HollywoodLife, a source close to the couple said, “People close to both Justin and Hailey have been told that the February 28th date for a wedding between the two is a go. Justin is very excited because he is looking to make a complete weekend out of it especially since his birthday follows the wedding day. The plan is for it to be an intimate but celebratory affair with close family and friends attending. It’s not going to be a celeb-filled situation and though many know the date of everything they haven’t been told anything else on theme or location. Close family and friends have just been told to be ready to be ready and all necessary travel will be figured out by Justin and Hailey since they want to keep things as secretive as possible. Lots of family will be filled in closer to the date on everything that will be taking place.” It would be recalled that Bieber proposed to Baldwin during a romantic trip to the Bahamas in July 2018. Shortly after their low-key marriage, the couple denied reports that they had legally wed but Baldwin soon changed her Instagram handle to “Hailey Bieber.” Recently, Justin’s manager, Scooter Braun, hinted that a new Bieber album could be coming.