 Olusola Oke  A chifttain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Olusola Oke, has declared that the integrity of President Muhammadu Buhari makes him the real project in the southwest. Oke said this while receiving members of Buhari/Osinbajo Strategic Solidarity Movement (BOSSEM) in Akure. He dispelled all political insinuations that the internal crises within the APC would affect Buhari’s second term bid.He assured that the opposing in the party would work for the re-election of Mr. President. He downplayed the fears that have been raised in some parts of the country, especially Ondo and Ogun states where close allies of the governors ditched APC to join other parties. Oke, who was recently appointed as the South West Director of Buhari/Osinbajo Campaign Organisation, said: “My primary work is to bring everybody together: the aggrieved and non-aggrieved to have a good showing. “We need everybody, so we appeal to whosoever is aggrieved. I am happy about one thing, which is that whosoever is aggrieved is still going to work for the president. “Mr. President is the real project and APC has a way of finding solutions to its problems, so, that is not a problem. We will all work together,” he said,Aside the internal crises within the party, Oke who is a two-time governorship candidate in the state, said the major challenge in the next general election is for Nigerians to make the right choice. According to him: “Voting for another candidate apart from President Buhari is like the Israelites going back to Egypt. But in APC we are focused on Canaan by supporting Buhari. The chieftain explained that the Yoruba people are very sophisticated politically, adding that their place in the last election was crucial and critical and it’s going to be same in this election. He added: “We have our own options and we have weighed them and at this level, the option of Buhari has no alternative and that is why we are going for him. No doubt, there are challenges.” The campaign director explained that the challenges of what the present administration had been facing in the past three and half year were to lay a new foundation for the growth of the country. “The super-structure is yet to come. It is now our responsibility as Nigerians to make sure the solid foundation is not destroyed so that the superstructure can be put on it,” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .