Nigerian music act, Blackface Naija has declared total war on his former music group mate, 2Face Idibia. Taking to his Instagram page to declare war and also say 2Face’s career is going to end once the war is over, Blackface who is a former founding member of the defunct Plantashun Boyz issued the warning. Although he didn’t state what triggered this new post, he wrote, “Can the #WAR officially begin @official2baba ? I say it has now #officially… even though you been taking secret shots but you can come out in the open now You know your career is going to end when this is finally over #youareoverwith2019 ” It is noteworthy that this is not the first time, Blackface has openly slammed 2Face who he has accused of stealing some of his songs in times past. Their feud has been a longstanding one with threats of taking legal action from both parties. Their altercation started following the break-up of their former group in 2004, with Blackface claiming he wrote the song, “African Queen”, which remains one of 2Face’s biggest hits till date. The song was part of 2face’s debut solo album, “Face2Face”. Their enmity resurfaced in 2014, when another single, “Let Somebody Love You” off 2face’s “Ascension” album reportedly contained lyrics written by Blackface. Blackface raised a fuss on various media platforms alleging that his former bandmate stole the song from him. Things took a turn for the worse in 2018 when 2Face dragged Blackface Naija to court in a N50 million lawsuit, with 2face’s manager, Efe Omoroge saying that is for defamation of character. Unperturbed by the lawsuit, Blackface revealed that that his legal team are taking care of the lawsuit, and that he’s prepared to meet 2face in court. He told Potpourri via a Whatsapp call, “My lawyers are taking care of the legal action. Maybe you will be in court to follow up the proceedings, if the case gets to that level because that’s where we are going right now”. With this new declaration of war, it waits to be seen how 2Face will respond.