Leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the southeast zone have pledged to work together as a formidable team to deliver President Muhammadu Buhari in the 2019 elections and change the negative perception in the zone about the party. They agreed to embark on door-to-door and community-to-community campaigns to showcase the achievements of the president in the southeast zone since 2015, even as they expressed confidence in the ability of the president to continue to transform the country for the good of the people. In a communiqué released after the well-attended maiden meeting of the South East APC presidential campaign council, held in Enugu, the leaders also passed a vote of confidence in the zone’s Director of Campaign, Sharon Ikeazor and pledged their support to enable her undertake the task of achieving victory for Buhari in the election. At the meeting were Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, who represented Ministers from the zone, former governor Sullivan Chime who represented former governors, Southeast Zonal Chairman of the party, Mr. Emma Enukwu, National Auditor, Chief George Moghalu, APC gubernatorial candidates in the elections: Senator Hope Uzodinma (Imo) Senator Ayogu Eze (Enugu), Chief Uche Ogah  (Abia) and Chief Sunny Ugwuoji  (Ebonyi). There were also Senator Ben Uwajumogu, Senator Andy Uba, Senator Julius Ucha, and Senator Margery Chuba-Okadigbo as well as National and State Assemblies candidates, former Ministers Chief Emeka Wogu and Professor Chinwe Obaji. Also in attendance were State Chairmen from the five South Eastern states, National Working Committee members and political appointees including Mr. Osita Okechukwu, Juliet Ibekaku and Princess Gloria Akobundu among others. The communiqué signed by Ikeazor said that the leaders resolved to ensure that President Buhari wins overwhelmingly in the South Eastern region.They also pledged to “reconcile, restore and reintegrate into our fold, our disenchanted members” as well as reinforce the need to “forget their differences from the fallout of party primaries and unite to win the presidential election and other elections for the APC.” The leaders thanked the President for the confidence reposed in Sharon Ikeazor, saying she has a wide reach in the five eastern states and beyond based on her antecedents as a former National Women leader and member of board of Trustees of the party and promised to support her in her assignment.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .