Former Nigeria vice president and opposition People’s Democratic Party presidential candidate Atiku Abubakar on Saturday returned to Nigeria from United States visit. Atiku left Nigeria on Thursday, 17 for the US for the first time in 12 years. While in the US, he spoke at the United States Chamber of Commerce, met with a Nigerian community and also visited the Voice of America office. Atiku also met with top US government officials to discuss business and other potential collaborations between Nigeria and America if he emerges president after the 2019 general election. The Guardian gathered that the PDP presidential candidate on Friday, met with Nigerians living in the US. However, Nigerian government had threatened to press legal charges against Atiku when he returns from the US. Information and culture minister Lai Mohammed on Friday had alleged that Atiku was responsible for the N156 million fraud that led to the liquidation of the defunct Platinum Habib Bank (PHB). PDP, however said the threat to Atiku was borne out of fear that Buhari was going to loose the February 16 presidential election to Atiku. Atiku’s eligibility of travelling to the US has been an issue of national discuss since his emergence as PDP presidential candidate in October 2018. He and his fourth wife Jennifer Douglas, an American citizen, were allegedly indicted in 2010in a 328-page American Senate committee report for transferring over $40 million “suspect funds” to America from offshore accounts between 2002 and 2008. “Ms Douglas helped her husband bring over $40 million in suspect funds into the United States, including at least $1.7 million in bribe payments from Siemens AG, a German corporation, and over $38 million from little known offshore corporations, primarily LetsGo Ltd. Inc., Guernsey Trust Company Nigeria Ltd., and Sima Holding Ltd,” the Carl Levin-led Permanent Subcommittee on Investigation said on page 173 of its report. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .