 [FILES] Buhari during recent APC Presidential campaign  It, therefore, challenged the All Progressives Congress (APC) to tell the nation the political history of those the President will inaugurate today to lead his re-election campaign, saying such corrupt persons were the ones trying hard to convince Nigerians to re-elect him. In a statement issued yesterday in Ado-Ekiti, Director of Media and Publicity, Lere Olayinka, urged Ekiti people and Nigerians to take note of those President Buhari will be presenting as Vice Chairmen (North and South), Director General and zonal coordinators of his campaign. “PDP, like every other organisation, had its fair share of bad elements and we are happy that those corrupt elements left the party and are now comfortably calling the shots in the APC, playing leading roles in the reelection campaign of a President they told Nigerians had integrity. “At the top echelon of the campaign council of their Mr. Integrity is Rotimi Amaechi, a man who has lived close to 20 years of his existence on public funds, having spent eight years as Speaker of Rivers State House of Assembly and seven and half years as governor on PDP ticket. Out of 20 years of his political life, he has only spent four in APC. “George Akume, Vice Chairman (North) of the Buhari Campaign Council, was Governor of Benue State from May 29, 1999 to May 29, 2007 on PDP platform, while Ken Nnamani, Vice Chairman (South) was Senate President between 2005 and 2007 on the party’s platform,” the statement reads. It also mentioned senators Aliyu Wamakko, Ali Ndume, Abdullahi Adamu and Godswill Akpabio, campaign director for South-South, who was until recently PDP Minority Leader in the Senate, among others. Meanwhile, Director of Public Affairs, Emmanuel Jime Gubernatorial Campaign Organisation, Devaan Hanmation Mom, has urged party members in Ushongo Local Government Area of Benue State to end their internal wrangling, form a united force and vote for Buhari, Jime and other APC candidates in the state during the elections. Mon, who gave the charge at the weekend, while playing host to APC members at her country home in Ikyo Azande, said she foresee positive developments in the state if APC candidates are voted into power. She said was to confide in and intimate the people of her new appointment as Director of Public Affairs, Jime Campaign Organisation and solicit their support to enable her succeed in her new task. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .