A’Ibom PDP alerts of APC’s plot to indict its members The Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) has raised the alarm over alleged recruitment of beneficiaries of N’Power programme as ad-hoc staff to rig the general elections. CUPP’s Spokesperson, Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere, disclosed that the group was in possession of reliable information that Amina Zakari will be in charge of the recruitment and training of wards, local governments and states collation and returning officers.He alleged that the move was in line with the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration resolve to rig the elections. He, therefore, enjoined the National Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to ensure that the commission does not recruit any N’Power beneficiary as ad-hoc staff for the general elections. “President Buhari has said that the main thrust of the N’Power scheme is to harness Nigeria’s young demography through appropriate skills development, providing a structure for large-scale and relevant skills acquisition and development, and linking outcomes to fixing inadequate public services and stimulating the economy. “Yet under his administration, Nigeria attained the highest number of extremely poor people in the world, with 87 million people in extreme poverty and growing by six people every minute. “This administration has failed Nigerians and it is clear they will loose the election in a free and fair contest, so they are resorting to all manner of ploys to rig the elections, including their N’Power programme, which has failed to lift Nigerians out of poverty,” he stated. Meanwhile, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Akwa Ibom State has accused the All Progressive Congress (APC) of plotting to indict its members for subsequent arrests and detention.Chairman of PDP in the state, Obong Paul Ekpo, made the allegation during a media briefing at the party’s secretariat in Uyo. He disclosed that intelligence reports at the party’s disposal revealed that the APC would use branded buses as if they were PDP’s with government plate numbers, where arms and those occupying the buses would be heading for venue of APC rally with the aim of causing mayhem. “On approaching, the buses and their occupants will be arrested and contents of the vehicles displayed as a major security breakthrough. Also, the suspects will mention some PDP chieftains as their financiers, necessitating their arrest and subsequent prosecution under the anti-terrorism Act.“The plot is aimed at arresting and incarcerating our key leaders and keeping them away from circulation during the election period,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .