Oseloka H. Obaze •Defends Onanaeze’s endorsement of Atiku/Obi
•Chieftain flays presidency for faulting U.S. UK’s position on Nigeria’s democracy Chairman of Atiku/Obi Campaign Council in Anambra State, Mr. Oseloka Obaze has reaffirmed that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) holds the late Nmandi Azikiwe in high esteem. He said the clarification became necessary following insinuations that the party shunned President Muhammadu Buhari’s last week visit to Anambra State to unveil Zik’s mausoleum. Obaze also defended the endorsement of PDP’s presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar by the Ohanaeze Ndigbo. Fielding questions in Awka, yesterday on the events trailing Buhari’s visit to Onitsha last week, Obaze said the PDP would never play politics with Zik’s name. He explained that Buhari’s official opening of the mausoleum was not part of the agenda at the Ohanaeze Ndigbo’s meeting, stressing that every Igbo person respects Zik, especially his contributions to the development of Nigeria. “We recognise Zik as father of the nation, He was a national hero and he remains so. Whoever wants to politicise the Buhari’s visit does not love Ndigbo. “Azikiwe was the Zik of Africa. Also our candidates have uttermost regard and respect for him, and I do not think we should politicise it. The mausoleum is a tourist attraction centre and remains so. But then, the unveiling of the centre and the Ime-Obi meeting’s clash on same day was a co-incidence,” he said. Obaze explained that the mausoleum is a federal government project, adding that Buhari did not lay its foundation, but the previous government. He lauded Onanaeze’s endorsement, which would go a long way in impacting positively in the area, depending on the outcome of the upcoming general elections. The PDP chieftain absolved the President General of Ohanaeze, John Nwodo of any wrong doing, arguing that he had provided purposeful leadership for the body at a crucial time of national development. “Those who are crucifying Nwodo lack courage, because he is an educated, well informed, two time minister, and an elder statesman who is not in search of recognition. Meanwhile, a former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Timi Frank has condemned the Presidency’s call on the United States of America (USA), and the United Kingdom (UK) not to interfere in the affairs of the country. Frank described a statement credited to President Buhari, where he warned the UK, USA and other countries against interference in the affairs of Nigeria as a “message from table of an ingrate.” He said President Buhari would not have emerged victorious in the United 2019 polls, without the intervention of countries like UK, United Nations and USA among others. He called on the international community to ignore the Nigerian presidency and do everything to encourage and help to sustain democracy in Nigeria.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .