 Mr. Bobboi Kaigama, the President of Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC) .  They argued that lawmakers cannot afford to short-change Nigerian workers by siding with the executive arm of government, which appears bent to scuttle the already negotiated figure. The association’s National President, Bobboi Kaigama and the Secretary-General, Alade Lawal, in a statement yesterday, said by recommending two parallel minimum wage, one for federal workers and the other for state governments and private sector employees, members of the National Council of State (NCS) have given the impression before the international community that their knowledge of the global concept of a national minimum wage  is suspect. According to them, it is this type of decision that continues to make Nigeria a laughing stock before the comity of nations.The union stressed that rather than approving a living wage for workers, the presidency is hiding under the NCS to subvert the N30,000 monthly national minimum wage recommended by the tripartite committee after extensive consultations and deliberations before it arrived at the figure. Regretting that Nigerian workers are the least paid in Africa despite enormous petroleum resources that have continued to be siphoned into private pockets by the political elites, the union lamented that the NCS have shown how insensitive and heartless they are by insisting on N27,000 as a minimum wage for states and private sector employees. They therefore, urged the trade union movement, civil society groups, students organisations, market women and other mass organisations to prepare to resist the deliberate plans of the government to continue to impoverish Nigerian workers and other underprivileged groups in the country. Giving instances, the group said: “Nigeria’s National Minimum Wage stands at $58 per month while that of Libya is $325, Algeria $155, Chad $110, Morocco $310, South Africa $232 and Seychelles $304, among others. “How can a worker live on N1,000 per day, let alone fend for his or her spouse, four children and dependants?
“By insisting on N27,000 as a Minimum Wage for States and Private Sector employees, the members of the National Council of State have shown how insensitive and heartless they are.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .