 [FILE] Atiku Abubakar<br />Photo: Twitter/UcheSecondus  He also condemned the bid by the Federal Government to get the United States government to deny him visa, saying with or without a trip to the US, the PDP would dislodge the All Progressives Congress (APC) at next month’s election. In a statement issued in Abuja yesterday, Atiku’s Special Assistant on Public Communication, Mr. Phrank Shaibu, said the federal government should bury its head in shame having failed to stop him from travelling to the US. He said it was shameful that the governing APC took it upon itself to call on the authorities of another country not to grant a private citizen entry visa, which ordinarily should not be its business. Alhaji Lai Mohammed had at the hint of the US granting Atiku visa last year, cautioned the Americans not to contemplate the gesture as it might give the impression that the foreign power is supportive of the opposition party’s candidate. But Atiku who arrived in the US on Thursday said the APC was jittery knowing that its government has failed, stressing that Buhari’s days as president of Nigeria were numbered, which explains why members of the ruling party have been running from pillar to post. He challenged the federal government to either prove his alleged corrupt activities, or forever remain quiet. “It is disgusting to continue to spin allegations of corruption against me by people who have failed to come forward with a single shred of evidence of my misconduct while in office. Isn’t it a shame that the ruling party whose National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole only yesterday gave official confirmation to the general belief that, even if Lawrence Anini becomes an APC member today, Buhari will forgive and consecrate him can turn around to accuse me of corruption today? They just suddenly woke up to the reality that their lies about Atiku being corrupt can no longer hold? “I challenge the federal government to come up with evidence that I benefitted from N156 million slush funds through Claremont Management Services Account on 13th January, 2009 as well as the collapse of Bank PHB as they have alleged. “It is instructive to note that the same BankPHB is now Keystone bank which was said to have been acquired by Buhari’s cronies through AMCON last year,” Atiku said. “Tell them that their days of deceit are numbered. Nigerians are tired of them and they can no longer lie or take the people for a ride anymore,” the statement said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .