 Mammoth crowd at Atiku’s PDP Presidential Campaign Rally in Kaduna State. Photo/Twitter/OfficialPDPNig  Atiku, who also promised to restore the nation’s security, spoke at a campaign rally at Ahmadu Bello Stadium, Kaduna. He said the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) has failed to fulfill its 2015 campaign promises, and urged the electorate to bring back the PDP and return the country to the path of progress. The former vice president stressed that the APC and President Muhammadu Buhari must go, recalling: “It was the PDP that brought development to the nation, even as the APC came and lied to change everything. “APC promised to tackle insecurity, but the challenges are still here ravaging the northwest, northeast, north central. Have they fulfilled the promises?  So why are we going to vote for them? Atiku explained that the PDP was responsible for all the development in the country. But the APC came and deceived people, lied to them, and asked them to vote for change, but where is the change? Read More: Atiku says PDP will ensure prosperity, economic development National chairman of the party, Prince Uche Secondus said: “APC has been sleeping on duty, that is why Nigeria have been witnessing hunger and insecurity, cautioning that if Buhari is re-elected, the cabal will be in control of government because Buhari is weak, and cannot rule. Presidential Campaign Director General, Senate President Bukola Saaraki, said Atiku has capacity to deliver and make Nigeria great. Similarly, his running mate, Peter Obi called on the Federal Government to study and adopt the empowerment module of the Delta State Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa. He spoke yesterday in Asaba at the state’s second job creation exhibition for beneficiaries of various empowerment schemes. In Benin City, Obi at the town hall meeting with the party supporters and members of PDP, urged the electorate to secure the country’s future by voting out President Buhari. Obi said the current administration couldn’t guarantee their safety, following its inability and failure to secure the people in some states from various attacks by insurgents. He declared that Nigerians could no longer continue with the current economic hardship in the country, adding that if the present administration continues to cling to power in the next four years, there is the likelihood that there may not be a country called Nigeria again. He said: “They promised us that fuel will be N40, they promised us that they are going to eliminate Boko Haram and they promised us that our children will have jobs that they are going to create three million jobs per annum. All we hear everyday is 16 of PDP ruined the country.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .