 [FILES] Remo Stars players listening to tactical instructions before a match. The Super 8 play off in Aba has suffered postponement  But matches involving Bendel Insurance, Remo Stars, Kada City and Gombe United, who have been promoted to the elite class following their success in the play-off in Aba, have been postponed. Bendel Insurance and Remos Stars came first and second in the Southern zone of the play-off held at the Enyimba Stadium, Aba, while Kada Stars and Gombe United picked the ticket from the Northern zone. Ibadan-based 3SC, Delta Force, Kogi United and Real Stars of Kaduna failed to make it to the elite division. At the draws held inside the Aba Stadium immediately after the promoted teams were confirmed, the League Management Company (LMC) explained that the matches were moved forward because some of them involved the country’s representatives in CAF Club competitions and others would feature the four newly promoted clubs from the NNL. AT the mini-draw supervised by the LMC Chief Executive Officer, Nduka Irabor, Insurance took slot 1, Remo Stars in 2, while Gombe United and Kada City were in 3 and 4 respectively. 
 
The mini-draw thus pitched Wikki Tourists against Insurance, Rivers United and Remo Stars, Yobe Desert Stars and Gombe United and Go Round FC to play Kada City. Speaking at the draw, LMC’s Chief Operating Officer, Salihu Abubakar said, “the games involving the promoted clubs from the NNL are being shifted to give the club’s time to return to their respective bases and make adequate plans to play in the NPFL. “It is only fair that the players be allowed time to recover from the rigours of the tournament they just participated in and they would join from Match Day 2, while a new date will be announced for the postponed fixtures.” The other postponed games are those between Lobi Stars and Katsina United and between Rangers International and Niger Tornadoes. While Lobi are playing in the CAF Champions League, Rangers are campaigning in the CAF Confederation Cup and both clubs are in action this weekend.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .