Nigerian President, Muhammadu Buhari said none of the ruling All Progressives Congress members or his close allies has immunity against corruption charges. “I don’t think I asked that Akpabio or whatever he did before moving to APC to be left alone. I can’t remember asking EFCC, ICPC or the police to spare any corrupt person,” Buhari said during an interview with Arise TV on Monday night “I haven’t done it, I challenge you to expose any,” he added. The president stated this while responding to a question on why the Economic Financial Crime Commission(EFCC) stopped investigating the former minority leader Godswill Akpabio after he joined the ruling party. Akpabio first came under investigation in late 2015 following accusations that he diverted over N100bn from the oil-rich state between 2007 and 2015, an allegation which he has denied. The EFCC wrote letters to Zenith Bank, Keystone Bank, First City Monument Bank, Skye Bank, and United Bank for Africa demanding information on the state’s accounts. The anti-graft agency also extended its investigation to the accountant-general, the auditor-general, the Speaker and the clerk of the House of Assembly. Following the allegations, the Akwa Ibom State Government refused to cooperate with the EFCC and took the commission to court and obtained an interim injunction, restraining the EFCC and other Federal Government agencies from probing its finances. Few months after, the judge lifted the injunction paving way for full investigations. But at his grand welcome rally in August, Akpabio said the anti-graft agency has cleared him of all corruption charges. “Those petitions to the EFCC have been sorted out. As I stand today, I have not been charged to court because nothing was found against me,” Akpabio said. EFC, however, responded through its spokesperson Wilson Uwujaren that the cases against Akpabio haven’t been closed. When asked if Akpabio was still under probe, the EFCC spokesperson said, “EFCC does not close cases or give clearance to anybody.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .