With realisation that quality education is crucial in human and national advancement, Old Students of Girls High School (GHS), Azuiyiokwu, Ebonyi State, have pledged to support their alma mater and rebuild some of its dilapidated infrastructure. Acting National President of GHS Old Girls Association, Mrs. Blessing Ginger-Eke, who disclosed this in Abakaliki recently when some of the union delegates visited the school, stressed the need for old students to visit their alma mater and give back to the institution that shaped their personality. The president said after the visit to the school, members were appalled at the sorry state of the infrastructure and decided to act swiftly and contribute to the wellbeing of the pupils presently attending the school. Though she affirmed that the school contributed immensely in shaping their philosophy about life, and also offered a solid foundation upon which they excelled in their respective careers, but its present state, she announced, is pitiable. She said: “We had mixed feelings after the visit. Though we were glad to once again behold the site that holds fond memories of our lives as teenagers, but we are at the same time stunned at its present state. After the Principal of the school, Dr. Mrs Ngozi Okonkwo, took us round the school, we discovered that nothing has really changed since we left. Rather, the structures are dilapidating and the students living condition is poor, more so, now that they are compulsory boarders. “Of all the deteriorating structures, what made most of us teary was the state of the hostel’s bathroom. We were told that the wall collapsed long time ago and you cannot believe it that at this time and age, our little sisters in their innocence bath in the open. We were all moved to start the project immediately, and we unanimously started contributing to the project. So far, we have raised close to N600,000 and we are appealing to our members near and far to be part of the noble venture. “Our plan is that the state’s commissioner for education will commission the project when completed. So, this is a clarion call to all alumni of the school to identify with us and help give back to our mother school. We are making history, be part of it.” Also, another executive member of the group, Mrs. Henrietta Nneka Uyanna, hinted that the association is also planning to be recognising and rewarding exceptional students yearly as a way of motivating them to be studious. “We plan to be giving awards to the best student of each class as well as the school’s overall best student at the end of every academic session so as to stir competitiveness among them,” she added. Acting Chairperson of Abakaliki Chapter, Mrs. Edith Anyanwu, who counselled the pupils to be hardworking, resolute and focused, remarked that this is the first time old students are identifying with the school since its inception in June 1980.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .