Mohammad Abubakar • Dankwambo lists gains of voting PDP
Thirty opposition political parties in Bauchi State have endorsed the gubernatorial candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC), Governor Mohammad Abdullahi Abubakar, for a second term in office. The leader of the coalition, Alhaji Abdullahi Mohammed, while addressing journalists yesterday, said they arrived at the decision having realised that they share similar objectives with the ruling APC, which centres on “national progress, economic transformation, peace, security, unity and national development.” This is just as Gombe State governor, Dr. Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo, disclosed that the socio-economic and political dimensions in the country would witness an unprecedented turn around if the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP) is given another chance to take charge of leadership in the country. Dankwambo, who spoke in Kaltungo, venue of PDP campaign flag-off, enjoined Nigerians to vote the Atiku/Obi ticket, stressing that his track record and political antecedents in the country make him the most experienced and most preferred candidate for Nigeria. Also speaking, Speaker of House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, decried the economic situation and level of poverty among Nigerians, even as he appealed to the electorate saying: “Nigeria has been under intense security challenges; we must stop APC to have one united Nigeria and end insecurity in the North East, Zamfara, Sokoto and country at large.” In his remarks, PDP gubernatorial candidate, Senator Usman Bayaro Nafada, fondly called Dankauye, said; “voting PDP in Gombe means support for continuity of developmental projects in the state.” Director-General of PDP Campaign Committee, Alhaji Bala Bello-Tinka, who could not hide his joy at the massive turn out of PDP faithful in Gombe South, called on the party’s supporters to work for the success of PDP candidates at all levels in the forthcoming polls. Meanwhile, Mohammed said the coalition decided to reaffirm their support for an alliance with APC in the forthcoming general elections, stressing: “We are satisfied with the progressive agenda, developmental projects and policies of the present administration of President Muhammadu Buhari and Governor Mohammed Abdullahi Abubakar in Bauchi State. We support their candidature in APC and we are committed to ensuring their success.” The coalition dissociated itself from all other political parties who purportedly formed a coalition against the ruling party in the state and resolved to support and campaign for the candidates of APC. Some of the leaders present at the press conference were African Peoples Alliance (APA), National Conscience Party (NCP), Young Progressive Party (YPP), Labour Party (LP), United Democratic Party (UDP), National Action Council (NAC), Democratic People’s Party (DPP), Abundant Nigeria Renewal Party (ANRP), and Action Alliance (AA) among others parties.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .