A former member of House of Representatives, Doris Uboh, has declared that her legislative experience would put her in good stead to deliver quality representation to the people of Delta North Senatorial District in the Senate. Uboh, who represented Ika Federal Constituency in the Sixth National Assembly, spoke while addressing women from the senatorial district. She said the demand for excellence in governance and the quest for Anioma revival, are things that require men and women with experience, key potential and clear vision in the legislature. Alluding to the controversy that surrounded her nomination as All Progressives Congress (APC), Uboh said the issues of representation and law making go beyond fashion extravaganza.She added: “Parliament is an instrument for social development and as such must sustain the confidence and expectations of its citizen. Therefore, delegates, especially the electorate, could not neglect experienced, excellent and competent leaders with values and strong desire for national development when choosing leaders to represent them at all levels. “In this regard, I present to you a woman driven by passion to serve. The people of Anioma deserve quality representation. It is time to bring development, quality education and meaningful empowerment to our people.“I feel I deserve promotion to the Red Chamber (Senate) considering my past record of achievements at the House of Representatives. Performance defines ability and expertise. It is a parameter you must keep in mind to identify a true leader.” The APC Senatorial candidate remarked that the time is now “to look for someone who is capable, competent and responsible, and who is willing to put people before power. All we need is to change our mindsets, apply intellect and influence each other on the need to choose quality leaders to represent Delta North at the Senate. A new Anioma is possible.” Uboh, who is an engineer by profession, told the women that while in the US where she acquired her first degree in electrical engineering, and a Master’s degree in international finance, stressing that she would always advocate for women empowerment through education. “I believe education is the key to transforming lives and this necessitates my annual scholarship awards to promising students of Ika land, both at secondary and tertiary levels,” she noted.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .