Ekiti engages monarchs to stop abductors Former President of the Court of Appeal (PCA), Justice Mamman Nasir, has escaped from kidnappers that waylaid him in his home state, Katsina. But the director of administration with Ekiti State Local Government Service Commission, David Jejelowo, and his driver were not as lucky, as they were whisked away to unknown destination. The director in Gbonyin Council was kidnapped on Monday evening along Ado-Ijan road while returning from Ode-Ekiti. Police Public Relations Officer PPRO) in Ekiti, Caleb Ikechukwu, confirmed the incident, but said that the driver had been released. Following the Katsina incident, Governor Aminu Masari has vowed government’s commitment to address kidnapping and related crimes in the state.Justice Nasir was said to have escaped from the kidnappers on Monday about 9.30pm between Gora and Yammawa villages on Dayi-Malumfashi road in Malumfashi Council. His orderly, simply identified as Aminu, was also unlucky as he ended up with the criminals.The incident came some 48 hours after a traditional title-holder with the Katsina emirate council, Babangida Lawal, was kidnapped. Lawal, the ward head of Zandam village in Jibia Council, was taken away alongside a business man, Murtala Rabe, by kidnappers who broke into their homes. Some residents that reportedly tried to save both men sustained injuries in the process.Police spokesman in the state, SP Gambo Isah, who confirmed the incident, said efforts were being made to rescue the men. The Guardian reports that the southern part of Katsina has been haven for kidnappers and other criminals.But speaking during his campaign trail, Masari said a committee consisting of government officials and heads of all security agencies in the state had been formed to come up with proposals on how to fix the problem. Meanwhile, Ekiti State government has solicited the support of monarchs and chiefs to arrest kidnapping and other violent crimes.The deputy governor, Bisi Egbeyemi, made the call yesterday while receiving members of the Association of Ekiti Traditional Chieftaincy Title Holders in his Ado-Ekiti office. Egbeyemi, in a statement signed by his Special Assistant (Media), Odunayo Ogunmola, disclosed that government was taking steps to ensure security of lives and property in the state.The chiefs, led by their spokesman, the Odofinyin of Iyin-Ekiti, Ayodeji Esan, had listed a 10-point demand including official recognition by government and their involvement in the maintenance of peace and security in their communities.They also urged government to involve local hunters and vigilance groups as part of measures to ward off the incursion of armed herdsmen and kidnappers.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .