Controversial talk show host, Wendy Williams will be taking an extended break from her show, “The Wendy Williams Show” due to concerns over her health, This was made known by the talk show host’s family who said, “there will be significant time spent in the hospital” for Williams. It is learnt that the daytime talk show host won’t be back on the show for at least a few more weeks. Williams announced yesterday, January 18 that she is extending her hiatus to “focus on her personal and physical well-being”. It would be recalled that Williams has been absent from her show since December after slurring her words on air and then citing painkillers to treat a hairline fracture in her right shoulder as the cause for the unusual behaviour. The celebrity gossip queen shared a statement from her family on Twitter. The tweet reads, “As Wendy Williams Hunter previously shared, she fractured her shoulder and has been on the mend. Over the past few days, Wendy has experienced complications regarding her Graves’ disease that will require treatment,” the Hunter family wrote. “Wendy will be under the strict supervision of her physicians, and as part of her care, there will be significant time spent in the hospital”. “Despite her strong desire to return, she is taking a necessary, extended break from her show to focus on her personal and physical well-being,” the note continued. “Wendy thanks everyone in advance for their well-wishes and for respecting her and the Hunter family’s privacy during this time.” Debmar-Mercury, the production company behind her show, added, “For over 10 years, Wendy has been a vital part of the Debmar-Mercury family. We wholeheartedly support Wendy in this decision to take the time she needs and we will welcome her back with open arms the moment she is ready.” According to the company, “The Wendy Williams Show” will air repeat episodes the week of January 21st and will produce original episodes with a variety of hosts starting the week of January 28th. It would be recalled that for 2017’s Halloween, Williams fainted on live TV. She was dressed as the Statue of Liberty and had just started doing her How You Doin’ segment, where she attempted to bring out a Halloween costume winner when she began to slur on her words before fainting. At first the audience thought it was a holiday joke when she slumped as producers and crew members rushed onto the stage when the broadcast went to black.