 [FILES] Plateau United FC  The match ended in a goalless draw, but fans suspected to be Plateau United supporters, led by one Attahiru Babayo, encroached on the pitch and assaulted match officials. For the infraction, the LMC yesterday ruled that Plateau United would play their next three home matches at the Ilorin Township Stadium, apart from paying a total fine of N5 million “for breaches of the Framework and Rules of the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL). The LMC also warned the club that it risked immediate three points deduction should a similar disturbance occur again during the current season. In the ruling, the LMC ordered the club “to assist security agencies apprehend the said Babayo and others for prosecution, failing which Plateau United will be liable to pay a fine of N25, 000 per day until the culprit is arrested.” The sanctions against Plateau United as signed by LMC’s Chief Operating Officer, Salihu Abubakar, reads: “You are in breach of Rule B8.21 of the Framework and Rules of the Nigeria Professional League Football League, in that on Sunday, January 13, 2019, in the course of your Match Day 1 Fixture: Plateau United FC vs. FC Ifeanyi Ubah, you failed to provide adequate security for match officials when some of your supporters and other unidentified persons attacked and assaulted the Referee immediately after the match. The sanctions include a N1 million fine for failure to provide adequate security, another N1 million pursuant to Rule C12 being compensation to each of the assaulted match officials and in addition to any certified cost of treatment. “Other sanctions include a fine of N1 million for throwing of objects on to the field of play, N1 million for encroachment on the field of play and restricted area immediately after the match and N1million for conduct capable of bringing the League to disrepute.” The LMC gave the former NPFL champions 48 hours within which to accept the decisions or elect to appeal. “However, any of the two decisions the club may choose must be communicated in writing to the LMC and should the appeal fail, additional sanctions may be imposed,” it said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .