Governor Ibikunle Amosun of Ogun State. Ogun State Governor, Ibikunle Amosun, yesterday explained why some All Progressives Congress (APC) leaders are quarrelling with him. Amosun disclosed that the war against him is because of the massive infrastructure development he has done in Abeokuta, the state capital over other regions in the state. The governor, who said he was sorry for this, insisted that no sane governor worth his salt would abandon the state capital to remain a glorified city that it was when it was elected in 2011. He spoke while kicking off his ward campaign for his senatorial election across all the wards in Ewekoro Local Council Area. At Owoowo ward 9, where he contested the senatorial seat in 2003, Amosun said it was uncharitable for anyone to accuse him of developing Abeokuta over other areas. He explained that though, priority was given to the state capital; he never abandoned other areas in his infrastructure drive, while accusing the unnamed leaders of being jealous of his achievements. “Why am I being castigated? Abeokuta was made the state capital over 40 years ago, and the only offence I have committed is to have developed it, but I tell you, no sane governor will neglect
Abeokuta, else that governor will see the result. “I have never neglected other areas. We have one of the best flyovers and roads of our administration in Sagamu. There are two flyovers in
Ijebu Ode with good roads and the same things were done in Ijebu Igbo and Yewa. “What we’ve done is that when we do three things in Abeokuta, we do two or one in other places, and we are running round day and night to get this done. I am not the first governor in Ogun State, but I appreciate what they’ve done.” While soliciting votes in all the wards, Amosun appealed to the electorate not to trade their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) for monetary gains, saying some politicians will come to deceive them. According to him, the government’s struggle has been that of liberation, adding that nobody can come and enslave us in Ogun State; hence we must be ready to liberate ourselves through the PVC. He cautioned: “Don’t trade your PVC with anybody, it is your power and if you’ve not collected, go and get it, because the only way to liberate yourselves is through the PVC. He implored the people not to be deceived into trading away the PVC, noting that the opposition would come with promises of loans and grants to request for the PVC number.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .