 Buhari and Obasanjo engaging in a discussion.  “So for us Obasanjo should adjust himself to the reality that after February 16, he would realise he is not God,” APC’s spokesperson, Malam Lanre Issa-Onilu said while addressing a press conference in Abuja on Sunday. “He has carried himself about as the dispenser of our destiny and God is showing him clearly that he has just only been lucky and the favour that God has done to him he has considered them as the things that are coming from himself,” he added. APC is reacting to Obasanjo’s 16-page open letter, titled, “Points for concern and action”, in which he took a swipe at Buhari describing his administration as a return to the era of the late former Head of state, Sani Abacha. APC said it was the former president, not Buhari, who has a dictatorial tendency. Both Buhari and Obasanjo were former military rulers in the country. “For 8 years of President Obasanjo, all the elections held, in fact, government policies were determined by whatever mood he found himself,” Issa-Onilu said. “All the institutions of government were brought under his whims. And what he did for those 8 years is what is haunting him.” Obasanjo also said Buhari was planning to rig the February 16 presidential poll because of his “mad desperation” to win. “From available intelligence, we have heard of how Buhari and his party are going about his own self-succession project,” Obasanjo said. “They have started recruiting collation officers who are already awarding results based on their projects to actualise the perpetuation agenda in which the people will not matter and the votes will not count.” APC, however, denied planning to rig the poll and promised “a free, fair and credible election.” “We have no reason to want to rig election. Our achievements speak for us.” “This election would come. It would be free and fair. APC doesn’t have any reason to rig it,” Issa-Onilu said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .