 Ashoka innovators for the public has brought its Africa hub to Nigeria to accelerate the ‘everyone a-changemaker’ vision in Africa.  Speaking yesterday in Lagos at the official unveiling of Nigeria as Ashoka’s Africa hub, Samb stressed the need to invest time and energy in solving the continents problems. He said: “We want Africa to lead the global movement of ‘changemakers’ and Nigeria has what it takes to lead the way, considering its population, number of entrepreneurs and manpower skills.” While giving his keynote address, Dr. Paul Ilona said there was need to look inward to generate income for a more sustainable society, hence all should embrace Asoka’s initiative. “We need to develop strategies and interventions that are sustainable and technology is the driving force,” he added. Also, Mary Iwelumo of PwC, who are associates of Ashoka, said the partnership was apt in helping her company realise its vision of building entrepreneurs to lead and sustain Africa’s economy. “This would help us implement sustainable development goals (SDGs) to accelerate and achieve the change Africa desires,” she added. Earlier in her welcome address, Director, Venture and Talent, Ashoka Africa, Josephine Nzerem, said as Ashoka creates a framework that fosters empathy and the change-making mindset in people and communities bringing the hub to Nigeria would accelerate the ‘everyone a-changemaker’ vision in Africa. According to her: “Ashoka collaborates with institutions for better and faster realisation of goals, as well as corporate organisations. “Fostering a system of collaborative entrepreneurship is important to solving social problems.” The event also featured discussion by some Ashoka fellows on ‘Social Innovation and Africa’s Challenge: Why Now?’ Founded in 1981 by Bill Drayton, the organisation builds and cultivates communities of change leaders who believe that the world requires everyone to be a ‘changemaker’ through collaborations with institutions and cultures to support changemaking for the good of society. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .