Nigeria’s main opposition party, People’s Democratic Party on Wednesday claimed that the ruling All Progressives Congress plans to rig the 2019 general elections. The party made this known in a press conference by the Presidential Campaign Organisation’s director of media and publicity, Kola Ologbodiyan. Ologbodiyan claimed there is “a fresh plot by the Muhammadu Buhari Presidency and the All Progressives Congress (APC) to compromise the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to rig the 2019 general elections.” The opposition party alleged that APC and the Presidency are mounting pressure on the election arbiter to drop the display of results at the polling units as well as the electronic transmission of polling figures to INEC server from its electoral guidelines. “The APC and Buhari Presidency are mounting pressure on INEC to drop the requirements so as to pave way for their planned alteration of results and allocation of fictitious figures to President Buhari during the collation process. “The Buhari Presidency is desperate to remove these requirements because the display of results at the polling units ensures that results posted at all levels remain those originally announced at the various polling units, while the electronic transmission to INEC server ensures that the results from the polling centres are not tampered with.” PDP’s claims were in spite of President Muhammadu Buhari’s promise of a free and fair election. In his New Year’s address, Buhari hit at those pushing false narratives and negativity while doubling dowb on his promise to deliver a level playing field at the polls. “Those who continue to trumpet falsehood and negativity are on their own, fighting a losing battle. The greater number of Nigerians are trusting and believing that we shall deliver on our promises for a level playing field at the polls, and that is what we shall do,” Buhari said. “Elections need not be do or die affair, and we should not approach that eventuality in a democracy with trepidation and mortal fear. Happily, a large number of presidential candidates have committed to peace, and peace we shall have.” With the elections less than two months away, PDP urged the INEC chairman, Prof Yakubu Mahmood, to “immediately disentangle himself and the commission” from the plot and not to bow to the pressure from APC, else he will be “on a collision course with Nigerians.” Ologbodiyan noted that Nigerians will directly hold the INEC chairman responsible if those “two important guidelines that guarantee transparency in the elections suddenly disappear from the INEC manual.” PDP reiterated its demand that INEC allows both local and international observers to its situation room to ensure transparency. A reputable source within the commission told The Guardian weeks earlier when PDP made the request, that such request would most likely be turned down, saying it was akin to “exposing your bedroom to outsiders.” “We have a direct line of communication with all our accredited observers whether local or international. But that situation room…I doubt if INEC would ever allow anybody to be there. I am there and I know a lot happens there, which I know is not advisable to bring to people outside. That’s my personal opinion. There we can easily detect an error and correct it. It’s going to be very difficult for INEC to allow EU observers get in,” the source said. In the address, the PDP Presidential Campaign Organisation (PPCO) rejected the use of past National Youth Service Corps Members as INEC Ad-Hoc Staff, claiming it is a ploy to use APC card-carrying members as polls officers. It concluded by saying Nigerians will stand against any attempt to subvert the will of the people, especially in the Presidential election. “…What Nigerians demand for is a transparent, free, fair and credible election that reflects only the will of the people, as directly expressed at the ballot. Any attempt by anybody, to subvert the will of the people will be highly resisted by Nigerians, in their determined resolve to elect a new President, come February 16, 2019. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .