Dr. Gloria Elemo To foster food and agro-allied processing technologies, pulp and paper processing, packaging and product designs and fabrication of equipment, the Federal Institute of Industrial Research, Oshodi (FIIRO) has unveiled its newly fabricated steam boiler. The Director General of FIIRO, Prof. Gloria Elemo, who unveiled the machines at the 2019 Science, Technology Innovation Expo in Enugu, stated that the steam boiler was primarily designed for process heating in food related industries, saying that it can be used in all major industrial sectors such as food and beverages, pulp and paper products, textile, chemical and other industries. “Steam provides heat and pressure for manufacturing processes. FIIRO developed technologies process equipment that uses steam include; drum dryer, pasteurizer, parboiler, palm oil refining plant, ginger oleo-resin, essential oil distillation plant, fruit juice/paste concentrate ethanol processing plant, pulp and paper digester, blanching, sterilization and other,” Elemo explained. She noted that the mobile garri processor was informed by the quest to bring garri processor to the door step of the small scale garri processors, adding that the technology has made garri processing cheaper, easier and more profitable. Ealier in his opening remarks, the Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, said science, technology and innovation is the weapon needed to fight poverty, hunger, sickness and unemployment, as well as to effectively manage sickle cell anaemia. The Minister said; “We have deployed science and technology in our various natural resources exploration and export to other nations to enable us to earn additional foreign exchange and to create more job opportunities for Nigerians, both young and old.” President Muhammadu Buhari, who was represented by the Secretary to Federation, Mustapha Boss, noted that the government would ensure the creation of special intervention funds to drive science and technology in Nigeria. Commending the ministry, he stated that the government has noticed the contributions of science and technology to national development and job creation. He said: “This exhibition showcases that science and technology can be used to solve human problems, and to also contribute to the national development. We will use effective promotion of science and technology to move Nigeria to the next level. The use of science and technology is improving job creation and the national security.
“We would provide the policy framework that will fast-track commercialization all R&D results of the research institutes under the Ministry of Science and Technology.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .