 Function of the mind is about the constructive development of the will  It ought not to be dependent on foolish sentiments and cultural parochialism, because it is all about the development of the true meaning of intelligence. As a matter of fact, the most important knowledge that man needs in his approach to solving his problems is an un-parochial approach to the understanding of the nature of will power in human affairs. As we have done so far in this article, we would like to make God the model of our understanding of the functions of the will. However, we truly want to make this independent of religion. Even though we have drawn arguments from how credible religions have supported the authenticity of the power of the will, their parochial approaches to its true explanation had really created problems for man in appreciating the power of the will in the running of their lives. Read More: Power of the mind – The inevitable panacea to man’s problems (VI) So, to make the arguments on the mind, intelligence and the will clearly relevant to the understanding of collective mankind, we may need to go through a clear unparochial avenue that would be acceptable to everybody, which should be a scientific approach. It is unfortunate that as narrow minded as some people could be, they believe that it is a sort of blasphemy to want to explain what to them are religious matters with the tool of science. They are the kind of people who have really been compounding the problems of this world. But I am glad that I am able to take my cue from Paul in the Bible, who as a learned man was not only a great exponent of religious truth, but also a subscriber to the fact that all matters must be intelligently proved. In this respect, he made a statement alluding to the importance of science in simplifying even religious truths, when he said: “For the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made even His eternal power and God head; so that they are without excuse (Rom 1:20)” What this statement implies is that you don’t have to clamour to see God physically to be able to understand how to emulate or learn from Him. Simply go and study the dynamics of the functions of creation or nature. You may not even need to believe in God to understand the techniques of maintaining an orderly life and solving problems, if you try to understand how nature functions in harmony. This is what Paul is saying that God ought to be understood through the functions of the things He has made. It should be clear to you that they operate on the method of laws, and one of the most outstanding ones of these laws is ‘whatever you sow you will reap.’ Agriculture will testify to this. But it has spiritual implications in the way we create and solve problems in our lives, buttressing my earlier statement that what you call spiritual laws may have their counterpart interpretations in natural laws. • Babatunde Ayo Vaughan is a psychologist. Babatund_2@yahoo.com  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .