 [FILE PHOTO] Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Imohimi Edgal  The victim had missed her way and allegedly approached the suspect at Maryland, asking how to get to her destination in Ketu. The suspect reportedly promised to take the victim to her destination. The woman who was so happy joined the suspect in his bus, but on the way, the suspect drove the confused woman to a lonely place at Oloti village, off Adeniyi Jones, Ikeja and allegedly raped her without mercy. A police investor told The Guardian: “Jelili raped the woman severally, but the old woman did not easily give up as she kept shouting for help even though the suspect covered her mouth with dirty rag. A woman who overheard her shout for help made a distress call and we raced to the scene where we arrested the suspect. The woman was bleeding profusely.” Commissioner of Police, Lagos State police command, CP Imohimi Edgal, who paraded the suspect at the commanded headquarters, Ikeja, said the unfortunate incident occurred on New Year day. The police boss said at about 8:00p.m. the woman met one Jelili Lawal, aged 41, a bus driver, at Maryland, Ikeja and begged him for direction to Ketu as she was missing her way. Edgal said the victim has been taken to the hospital and is being counseled by trauma specialist. Meanwhile the suspect will be charged to court as soon as investigation is over. Edgal, who frowned at the attitude of the driver who took advantage of the old woman, disclosed that similarly on January 3, 2019, a report was made at Alakuko Police Station, that one Samuel Balogun, 17, of number 14, Ademola Aboila street, Alakuko, took a 12-year-old girl to an uncompleted building and had carnal knowledge of the child. He said Balogun was promptly arrested and he is undergoing interrogation at the gender section of the command, adding that the suspect would be charged to court for defilement at the conclusion of investigation. In a related development, a 34-year-old man, Tunde Eyifunjowo, who allegedly defiled a seven-year-old girl, was yesterday remanded in Kirikiri Prisons, on the orders of an Ikeja Magistrates’ Court. Eyifunjiwo, who resides at Ojodu, Lagos, was docked for alleged defilement. When the case was called up, the Magistrate, Mrs. B.O. Osunsanmi, refused to take the plea of the defendant. She ordered that the accused be kept behind bars pending legal advice from the State Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP). Earlier, ASP Ezekiel Ayorinde, the prosecutor, told the court that the accused committed the alleged offence sometime in November 2018 at his residence. He said that the accused defiled the seven-year-old daughter of his co-tenant. “The accused called the girl inside his room, gave her biscuit and had sexual intercourse with her. The girl who is living with her grandmother told her what the accused did to her. She told her grandmother that was the fourth time the accused would be having sexual intercourse with her. Her grandmother reported the case and the accused was arrested,” the prosecutor said. The offence violated Sections 137 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. The section prescribes life imprisonment for offenders. The case was adjourned until Jan. 21 for mention.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .