 INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu  Yakub may not have the strong, uncompromising demeanour of Prof. Attahiru Jega, but prevailing circumstances show that Jega operated under a more democratic and ennobling environment than what has become Yakub’s lot. During Jega’s era, the common refrain among Nigerians, especially those from the northern part of the country, was about the breach of power sharing arrangement and perceived hijack of the President Goodluck Jonathan administration by some fat cats.
 
Contemporaneously, Yakub is faced with an obdurate presidency cabal that points to the 2007 election as a template to be replicated in 2019 election to sustain its hold on power. It is against this tough background that Yakub’s efforts to deliver credible election through a transparent process seem to be going awry. It could explain why even the simultaneous accreditation and voting initiative, which was hailed in December 2015, when it was first introduced in Bayelsa State gubernatorial election, is being visited with suspicion.
  
Already, more than 60 political parties have finalised arrangements to sue INEC for introducing certain stipulations in the electoral guidelines. The parties are also seeking a return to the arrangement put in place during the 2015 election, which placed the conclusion of accreditation before voting to ensure transparency. But aside the issue of scheme of balloting, there are a myriad of challenges that INEC would have to contend with during the forthcoming poll. Prominent among these challenges pertain to intimidation and voting by under-aged persons. Under-aged voters with PVCs
THERE is nothing as perplexing as the sight of under-aged children clutching biometric-laden PVC to cast their ballots. Only INEC is in a position to explain how the children got registered in the first place. And having been registered they were also allowed to collect the prized election ‘certificate’.
  
Perhaps out of the sensitivity of the topic or in a bid to avoid whipping ethnic sensibilities, none of the registered political parties has taken INEC to task over the breach. Based on the possession of PVCs, the child voters would be accredited to vote and they would end up casting their votes to elect representatives.
 
Yakub has, on a number of occasions, explained that diaspora voting is not feasible as yet for Nigerian citizens, who have the Green backed Nigerian passport and obtained visas to their countries of residence. It sounds contradictory that children, most of who can neither read nor write, are equipped with an essential facility to perform a serious civic exercise.
  
Some notable electoral commissioners had revealed in the past that INEC officials are usually threatened with violence and intimidated to register the children bellow the stipulated 18 years of age.     
  
Part of the distressing aspects of this perfidy is the fact that these children seemed to have been schooled into telling barefaced lies about their ages and occupation. One ready example is a copy of PVC, which bears the picture of a small boy making the rounds on social media. The boy’s age was put at 28, ostensibly to regularize the illicit registration to make him eligible for the election. Collusion versus security challenges
WHEREVER under-aged voters take part in selecting representatives, it underscores the possible collusion of electoral officers, security personnel and politicians. From the look of things and given the fact that the two prominent presidential candidates are from the north, where the incidence of child voters is rife, the stress would be on party agents and security officials to sieve the legitimate and illegitimate voters. Part of the complaints against the security agencies is the likelihood that they would side with the ruling party as it happened during the Ekiti and Osun governorship elections. Also during the 2015 election, it was reported that security agencies looked the other way and allowed political thugs to have a field day, thereby unwittingly condoning the intimidation of electoral staff. It is perhaps based on the crucial roles expected of the security agencies, especially the police that INEC chairman recently held a meeting with security chiefs in Abuja “to get a first hand report on their plans, strategies and state of preparedness” for the election that opens next month. Yakub noted that experience from the nearly 200 staggered elections after the last general election, underscores “the need for a different approach in the deployment of security during elections.”While expressing his determination to ensure that the 2019 election was free, fair, and credible, Yakub also maintained that the Nigeria Police remain the lead agency for election security, adding that other security agencies play supportive role. He declared: “However, we need a new security architecture for 2019, consistent with the provisions of Section 29(3) of the Electoral Act, 2010 as amended, which provides that ‘notwithstanding other provisions of any other law, and for purposes of securing the vote, the commission shall be responsible for requesting for the deployment of relevant security personnel necessary for elections or registration of voters and shall sign them in a manner to be determined by the commission in consultation with the relevant security agencies, provided that the commission shall only request for the deployment of the Nigeria Armed Forces for the purpose of securing the distribution and delivery of election materials and protection of election officials.” Against the background of public perception that the party in power is putting cogs in the wheel of free and transparent poll, how the issue of security and curtailing under-aged voters is handled by INEC would determine the credibility of Yakub’s strategies.Having made categorical denunciation of the use of incidence forms during the election, the INEC chairman seems to be setting the stage for greater participation of the electorate despite the impediment of enabling legislations.It would be seen in the coming weeks whether the 2019 election timetable would suffer similar adjustment as the 2015 edition. But that would be a request Prof. Yakub does not seem inclined to make.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .