 Dino Melaye  Until yesterday when he was finally granted bail, the senator representing Kogi West was held in a Police health facility in Abuja. He was being hunted by the Police for alleged criminal conspiracy and attempted culpable homicide. Before he surrendered to the Police earlier this the month, Police personnel had laid siege to his house for over a week, within which period they cut off sources of electricity and water supply to the residence. Earlier, Counsel to Melaye, Mike Ozekhome (SAN) had argued that ill health was a condition to reckon with in consideration for bail, saying only the living that could stand trial and that in an investigation procedure, it was unlawful to arrest a suspect unless there were enough evidence. “He is a senatorial candidate in this election and that is the reason they are holding him, so that he will not take part. It is a political vendetta,” he submitted. Counsel to the Police, Simon Lough, who opposed the application, argued that the arrest was lawful because it was in pursuant to a petition written against Melaye, alleging that he was in possession of firearms and attempted to commit an assassination. On health status, he said there was no evidence given by the applicant to show that the medical facility where he was taken could not take care of his illness. Ozekhome had argued that ill health was a condition to reckon with in consideration for bail, saying only the living that could stand trial and that in an investigation procedure, it was unlawful to arrest a suspect unless there were enough evidence. “He is a senatorial candidate in this election and that is the reason they are holding him, so that he will not take part. It is a political vendetta,” he submitted. Counsel to the Police, Simon Lough, who opposed the application, argued that the arrest was lawful because it was in pursuant to a petition written against Melaye, alleging that he was in possession of firearms and attempted to commit an assassination. On health status, he said there was no evidence given by the applicant to show that the medical facility where he was taken could not take care of his illness. In his ruling, Justice Yusuf Halilu, granted him bail due to ill health, saying Melaye must be healthy enough to stand trial, adding that since he cannot be arraigned on a stretcher or ‎on his hospital bed, he should be granted bail to enable him take care of his health The Judge, therefore, requested that he produce three sureties, one of who must be the Clerk of the National Assembly, who must undertake to produce him when he is to be arraigned in court in respect of the charge filed against him. Justice Halilu held that the other two sureties must be owners of properties within Abuja and adjourned the matter until January 23 for ruling on the substantive matter. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .