 VP, Osinbajo and President Buhari  A faction of Afenifere, the Yoruba Socio-cultural group, yesterday affirmed their support for the re-election of President Muhammad Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. The group, led by Senator Ayo Fasanmi, urged the Yoruba to support the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidates, noting that the region’s interests will be better served and protected by re-electing the duo in the February 16 polls. This came as Osinbajo charged the group not to relent in its quest for restructuring of Nigeria, noting that it was important and useful for the development of the country. Osinbajo stated this, while speaking as Special Guest of Honour at the pan-Yoruba summit organised by Afenifere (Egbe Ilosiwaju Yoruba) at the International Conference Centre, University of Ibadan, Oyo State. The Vice President argued that the country needed to have stronger states and devolution of power so that the states would be able to function independently.Senator Biyi Durojaiye from Ogun State read the document affirming the support for Buhari and Osinbajo’s reelection. Moving the motion for affirmation of support, Durojaiye urged all Yoruba sons and daughters to vote “All the candidates of APC in the election, especially Buhari and Osinbajo.” This was seconded by representatives of the six states in the region namely: Tajudeen Olusi (Lagos), Yemi Alade (Ekiti), Professor Bayonle Ademodi (Ondo), Sooko Adewoyin (Osun) Iyiola Oladokun (Oyo) and women representative, Mrs. Kemi Nelson. However, the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi and Aare Onakankanfo of Yoruba land, Gani Adams have urged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to ensure free, fair and credible elections next month.They changed the National Chairman of INEC, Professor Mahmud Yakubu, to bear in mind that the general elections, which will be conducted under his purview have a lot to do with the future, continuous peaceful coexistence of Nigeria and its development and should, therefore, be free of hitches that could trigger crisis. Speaking at the 2019 edition of Oodua Festival in Ile Ife, Osun State, Adams said as the general elections approach, “I believe the country can only get it right only if it is restructured.”Meanwhile, barely 17 days to the polls, politicians in the country have again, been advised not to overheat the polity and refrain from doing anything that could mar the credibility of the exercise. Supreme Head of the Cherubim & Seraphim Unification Church of Nigeria, Dr. Solomon Adegboyega Alao, gave the advice at a media briefing to herald the Church’s Annual General Conference in Lagos. Alao, who also appealed to all political gladiators and umpires to save Nigeria from unnecessary tension, which could discourage foreign investors from investing in Nigeria, said Nigeria’s future depends on a successful election. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .