A concealer is that one beauty product that’s perfect because of its multiple uses. Firstly, it’s used for correcting skin imperfections like dark under-eye circle, blemishes, hyperpigmentation and pimple scar to create a flawless skin finish.
Secondly, it is used to attract light by highlighting/contouring certain parts for your face and body to create shadows that can change the appearance of your face. We, however, don’t want our concealer caked and smudged up like that only draws more attention to the blemish rather than hide it.
Below are tips on how to conceal for beginners. Correcting skin imperfections like blemishes, discolouration and pimple spots helps to create the appearance of flawless skin and is an important step in improving the overall finished look of your makeup application. Typically, correcting concealers come in three major shades; green, yellow and red or orange and by understanding your skin’s undertone you can determine which correcting concealer will match its corresponding blemishes. Doing this properly can take your makeup application from amateur to a professional. Green concealer HD pro concealer green corrector from shopaholicconpk Green conceals redness in fairer/pale skin tone women. Apply directly on a red spot or inflamed pimple and pat into your skin for a flawless finish. Use this affordable LA GIRL HD Pro concealer- green corrector. fenty beauty pro filt’r instant retouch For medium yellow skin, use a yellow concealer like Fenty BeautyPro Filt’r instant retouch concealer in 310 to cancel out grey patches on your skin before applying foundation. mac studio conceal and correct palette Women with darker skin tones experience under eye and skin blemishes that show up as blue or green. A red/orange correcting concealer cancels this out by warming up the skin and neutralizing this cool tone. Try M.A.C studio conceal and correct palette/dark. The process of highlighting attracts light to targeted areas of your face. We are big fans of highlighting points than creating shadows (with a darker shade) even though it depends on the general aesthetic. How to apply concealer for highlighting: 1. First, prep your face with a face primer and correct any skin discolouration.
2. If there’s none use a liquid concealer two to three shades lighter than your skin tone and apply under your eyes, down the bridge of your nose, under your cheekbones, eyebrow bone and other high points of your face.
3. Blend in the concealer properly with a damp mini beauty blender.
4. Try to layer the foundation on top of the concealer which causes your overall makeup look to have a soft glow instead of the sharp contrast between shades.
5. Use a medium powder brush to set the under of your eyes and other high points with Laura Mercier translucent loose setting powder and finish with Iman cosmetics luxury pressed powder and House Of Tara cosmetics blush in Zinari on the apples of your cheeks for colour.