Governor Ibikunle Amosun of Ogun State They Are Noise Makers, Party Scribe 
The crisis within the Ogun State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) took a dramatic turn, yesterday, when the party’s caucus petitioned the National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole to remove Governor Ibikunle Amosun as the head of the State’s Presidential Election Council. The 13-paragraph petition, signed by the Caucus Secretary, Samuel Durojaiye and 16 other members, accused Amosun of anti-party activities, which they said had made them lose trust in him. It demanded that Amosun be sanctioned. The Governor and the party’s leadership have sharply disagreed on who should be the party’s Governorship candidate in the forthcoming election. While Amosun’s candidate is Hon. Adekunle Akinlade, the party’s leadership insisted that Prince Dapo Abiodun was the winner of the party’s primary. The situation resulted in Amosun’s loyalists within the party to defect to the Allied Peoples Movement (APM), where Akinlade is now the Governorship candidate. The disagreement also resulted in dissolution of the State Executive and setting up of a Caretaker Committee. The petition, copies of which were sent to the APC’s National Leader, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu, Otunba Niyi Adebayo, Deputy National Chairman (South) and Bankole Oluwajana, National Vice-Chairman (South West) explained that even though Amosun had been given the party’s ticket to contest for a Senatorial seat in the coming election, he had
“consistently been working at cross-action and objectives with other party leaders, both at national and state levels. “He (Amosun) refers and treats our respected leaders and our 2019 election candidates with high disdain and insolence,” the petitioners alleged. Other allegations were that he “openly declared, as reported by the Punch Newspaper on Thursday, December 4, 2018 that he would work against the party’s Governorship candidate; and that “he (Amosun) is using his position as Governor to sway uniformed Security Personnel to aid the activities of hired hoodlums in the destruction of APC campaign materials, and instilling fear in the minds of our followers and supporters.” But the Publicity Secretary of the dissolved party’s Executive, Wole Elegbede, told The Guardian that though he had no authority to speak on behalf of the Governor, “the authentic APC State Executive Committee in Ogun under the leadership of Chief Derin Adebiyi is not surprised about the petition. The allegations are not new. “I believe the petitioners are merely trying to draw attention to themselves, which is the stock-in-trade of professional petition writers. They are noise makers.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .