 [FILE] Members of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria, protesting against Anti-Grazing Bill in Taraba State…yesterday.    PHOTO: CHARLES AKPEJI  The Guardian leant that while some of them are vehemently drumming supports for the presidential candidate of the PDP, others are rooting for Buhari. It was further leant that confusion has also trailed which of the governorship candidates in Taraba State on the platform of APC and PDP the group should support. Northeast chairman of the association, Mafindi Damburam, who recently along side his group paid courtesy call on Governor Darius Dickson Ishaku of Taraba State, said members of the group have resolved to adopt Atiku and Ishaku, both of the PDP.Citing governor Ishaku’s decision to step down the open Anti-Grazing law, the members, he said, are left with no option than to throw their weights in support of his re-election and that of Atiku. According to him, the group decided to endorse Atiku as its presidential candidate and Ishaku as its governorship candidate, as a mark of good faith. He said Ishaku’s decision to step down the anti-open grazing law for a long time was commendable to avoid the unnecessary bloodbath that it could have caused. Damburam enjoined the people to come out en-mass on the election days to queue massively behind the PDP presidential candidate and Ishaku. Its state chairman, Sahabi M. Tukur, had charged its members nationwide to support Buhari’s re-election, and the APC governorship candidate in the state, Sani Abubakar Danladi. Tukur had charged its members nationwide to support Buhari’s re-election, and the APC governorship candidate in the state, Sani Abubakar Danladi. He cited the numerous achievements of President Buhari in the region, adding that it would be unfair for the association not to support the APC candidates in the polls. The decision to support Buhari and Danladi, according to him “is not only a mark of respect for our leaders, but also to the conviction that the President has fulfilled his campaign promises in areas of security, fighting corruption and enhancing the economic growth of our country,” Tukur had said. On the adverse effects of the group’s adoption of different candidates and political parties, the northeast chairmen said it would not in any way drag the association to the background.He said the support by the Fulani group for Atiku and Ishaku, was also a path to joining in building a stronger state, having realised their good intentions and Ishaku’s renege on earlier antagonistic position. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .