A video grab from footage broadcast by the UK Parliament’s Parliamentary Recording Unit (PRU) shows Britain’s Prime Minister Theresa May as she tells makes a joke about the opposition Labour party leader Jeremy Corbyn’s failure to demand a no-confidence vote against her government, during the weekly Prime Minister’s Questions (PMQs) in the House of Commons in London on December 19, 2018. – British opposition leader Jeremy Corbyn got himself into trouble on Wednesday for apparently muttering “stupid woman” at Prime Minister Theresa May during a heated exchange in parliament over her delaying tactics on Brexit. The Labour Party leader could be seen appearing to mouth the words in response to May making a joke about his failure to demand a no-confidence vote against her government after he had accused her of leading the country “into a national crisis”. (Photo by HO / PRU / AFP) / British MPs are set to hold a critical vote on January 15 on the Brexit agreement negotiated by Prime Minister Theresa May with the European Union, her spokesman said Tuesday. The House of Commons will on Wednesday resume debate on the deal that was halted in December when May postponed the vote in the face of widespread opposition. May told her weekly cabinet meeting that, subject to approval by MPs, “she would close the debate next Tuesday, January 15, when the vote will take place”, her spokesman said. He confirmed that the prime minister was still seeking assurances from the EU on controversial elements of the Brexit deal relating to Northern Ireland, in a bid to convince critics to back the agreement. These assurances are set to be delivered to lawmakers before they vote, although not before they start their debate on Wednesday. “The work to secure those assurances is ongoing. I think what’s important is that if we are to secure assurances, MPs are aware of what they are before the vote takes place,” the spokesman said. Elsewhere, he denied reports that British officials were talking to European officials about possibly delaying Brexit to avoid leaving the bloc on March 29 without a deal. “There are people in the European Union who are discussing this issue, but that is not the position of the UK government,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .