 Senator Godswill Akpabio (right); National Leader of All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu; National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole; President Muhammadu Buhari; Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo; Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi; Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha and others at the inauguration of the party’s presidential campaign council in Abuja… January 8, 2018<br />  Tinubu was also asked to respond to allegations that he succumbed to pressure to lead Buhari’s re-election bid following purported threats by agents of the presidency to expose and prosecute him for corruption allegations and not because he believes in the propriety of the president’s re-election. In a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, the PDP said: “It is very unfortunate that at the time Nigerians, across the board, are boldly jettisoning their personal interests and joining in the quest to rescue our nation from President Buhari’s incompetent, corrupt, divisive and anti-people regime, a leader of Tinubu’s status is chasing personal interests and self-preservation.” The opposition party recalled “how Tinubu, in January 2018, at the 15th Annual Daily Trust Dialogue rejected the Buhari administration’s nepotism, incompetence, corrupt oil subsidy regime and blamed it for the high-level of poverty in our country and urged Nigerians to be guided by their conscience in electing leaders in the 2019 general elections.” According to the PDP, Tinubu had held that “too much political and economic power resides in the hands of too few.” “Tinubu had also rightly posited that, under President Buhari, ‘rather than becoming a joyous nation, Nigeria has become a cruel playground where the fears and concerns of the average person get exploited but their interests never get promoted.” The party also recalled that Tinubu had urged Nigerians “to follow their conscience in the 2019 elections by resisting old prejudices”, which is the hallmark of President Buhari’s re-election campaign.” “The question Nigerians are asking now is what has suddenly changed in President Buhari’s leadership style to warrant Tinubu’s full circle turn. Nigerians have seen that his involvement in Buhari 2019 campaign is not motivated by any national or even regional interests but by personal reasons, far from the general good.” The PDP said that while it understood “the frustration being faced by Tinubu in this unfortunate task of marketing a rejected product, we caution him to be careful not to allow the ill-fated Buhari presidency to destroy whatever is left of the respect he has earned among Nigerians, who have already made up their minds to rally behind the PDP Presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, as the next president of Nigeria.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .