A week ago, we published a story on the rape accusations levelled by members of the Twitter community against Michael Asiwaju, known as Mike Cash, the founder of Asiwaju Royal Furniture. According to the Punch, Asiwaju has committed suicide a day after threatening to do so.  Mike Cash was said to have taken Sniper, a poisonous insecticide in his hotel room on the 13th of January, 2019. A tweep @thatgoddess alleged that she raped a woman inside his car in May 2017.  She, however, said that she did not have enough information. In an attempt to prove herself, she posted a chat history between him and the said woman as receipts. See the messages here. In reaction to this, he posted sex videos of some of the girls claiming that there were his girlfriends. However, tweeps said that the pictures he posted were not in sync with the girls especially the girl that raised the issue on Twitter. He went ahead to claim that his mother had died after hearing of the incident but sources who know him refuted the claim and said that his parents had long been dead. Thereafter, he alleged that it was his former colleague who is now involved in politics that is responsible for the accusations.  A day after this tweet, his lifeless body was found in a hotel room in Festac around 12 am on Sunday. According to a source, “He checked into the hotel with another name entirely. He wrote his name as Prince Moses. For now, no one knew why he used another name. It was later discovered that his face was the same as that of a young businessman prominent on Twitter. The suicide might not be unconnected with rape allegations against him in the social media.” The Police Public Relations Officer in Lagos, CSP Chike Oti also confirmed that the father of one took Sniper and two bottles were discovered at the scene. He said, “We are investigating a possible case of suicide. We were alerted that a young man died in his hotel room and the Commissioner of Police was informed.
He directed that the body should be evacuated and that a team of detectives comprising men from the forensic unit and men from the homicide section should investigate the matter. “The body was inspected and there was no visible mark of violence on the corpse. Two bottles of Sniper, which we reasonably believed he must have drunk, was recovered from the hotel room. One of the bottles had been emptied while the other one was still unopened. The man checked into the hotel with the name, Prince Moses. Preliminary investigation revealed that the man was the owner of a business known as Asiwaju Royal Furniture.” Nigerians have since the story been reacting to the news:   