Blue Baby support initiative distributing food to children Parents of weak and challenged children have been encouraged to reach out and access help when the children are still young and trainable, and not delay till situations have become serious and hard to deal with. This counsel was given by the proprietress of Blue Baby Support Initiative, a global advocacy NGO for needy children and mothers, Mrs. Aisha Dania Ogieriakhi. She made this recommendation during her programme, ‘Christmas with Love’, to beneficiaries, volunteers and benefactors of Blue Baby Support Initiative, whom she applauded for their dedication to the tenets and objectives of the organization. Speaking at the event organised to make merry with indigent orphans and vulnerable children of Baptist Hospital in Ejigbo, a suburb of Osun State, she posited that children are precious before God, and must not for any reason be allowed to suffer and have their future short-changed. “It behooves on us as an organisation to liaise with other well-meaning and socially responsible organisations to support the governments in providing succour for them. However, some cases appear near irredeemable, they have grown and developed beyond quick-fix because their parents would not come out and access help quickly. Parents should please not see these children as a curse. Children are a gift from God and provision for their sustenance will always come from God. Your duty as a parent is to seek that help by speaking up early” Corroborating Aisha Dania Ogieriakhi in her vote of thanks, Mrs. Alamu Abosede, the focal person for HIV Counselling and Testing at Baptist Hospital Ejigbo, said: “We work in collaboration with humanitarian and health support NGOs to provide help for the children of this village. But the parents of special children with Down Syndrome and other challenges should come out and talk “We have over 400 defenseless children in our care, many have graduated. The management and the children are very grateful to Blue Baby Support Initiative for the year-round support given us to sustain the dream of this scheme.” Blue Baby Support Initiative is created to advance the objective of United Nations Sustainable Development Goal 3 – to provide health and wellbeing for everyone by 2030. Hence, rural women, children and teenage mothers are targeted with outreaches and orientation programs; lifesaving wares and equipment for rural medical centers and provision of palliatives for orphaned and vulnerable children. This year’s activities also included a visit to the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, and fanfare with the Orphans and Vulnerable Children in Makurdi and Ibadan.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .