The stakeholders charge came at a roundtable on university-industry linkages organised by the National Universities Commission (NUC) in Abuja The National Universities Commission (NUC) has appealed to the Port Harcourt Electricity Distribution Company (PHED) to extend its power supply to the site of the proposed Topfaith University in Mkpatak, Essien Udim Local Council of Akwa Ibom State.The Leader of the NUC team, Prof. Hamza Abdullahi, made the appeal during his visit to the proposed site of the institution and the local office of PHED in the council area. “We are here to solicit the support of your company to the proposed Topfaith University. There is no way such an institution can operate without public power supply, please give them serious electricity backing to make their work easier,” he said. According to him, the commission’s visit to the proposed university is a key statutory requirement to ascertain the preparedness and readiness of promoters of private universities.However, the Head of Ikot Ekpene Business Unit of PHED, Mr. Solomon Ihenacho, assured the NUC team of their full collaboration with the proposed institution.He acknowledged the contributions and congenial partnership between the Chairman of Topfaith Schools and Thomas Abraham Foundation, Dr. Emmanuel Abraham, to the PHED, and promised to secure a special feeder to the proposed university. Meanwhile, Chairman of Essien Udim Local Council, Elder Raphael Isobara, who spoke earlier, assured the NUC team of readiness of the people of the council to co-operate with the promoter of the proposed Topfaith University.He commended the contribution of the initiator of the proposed university in the area of education. He stressed that such has helped to drive the social and economic development across the state and the country at large.“The establishment of Topfaith International Secondary School,Topfaith Legacy College and Montessori Nursery and Primary School has helped to quicken the pace of social and economic development in Essien Udim Local Council and Akwa Ibom State through the provision of quality education,” he said. He, therefore, expressed the hope that the proposed university would continue in that culture of academic excellence.Also, Abraham, the Chairman, Board of Trustees of the Foundation of the proposed university, said the institution would offer research and teaching on engineering, technology and environment studies.He promised that the planning and implementation committee, board of trustees and consultant of the proposed university would comply with all the directives of NUC for the proper take-off of the institution.NUC solicits for power supply to proposed Topfaith University  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .