The end of 2018 is here and for we fashion lovers hoping to start the New Year in a grand way, it is important for us to look at some fashion trends that rocked 2018. It is arguable that 2018 was mainly a reinvention of fads we have seen before. Although there were occasional cases of trying to break out of the box and try out something new, many of us were comfortable sticking to the old trends and play it safe. Without further ado, find below the top fashion trends of 2018. Loud Designers Davido in head to toe Gucci | Photo – Instagram 2018 was definitely the year for designers. It was designers everything for many famous people and the common man who can afford it. Are you thinking Gucci? Fendi? Calvin Klein? Prada? Louis Vuitton? All checked! 2018 is definitely the year everyone had a craze and love for designer outfits. Sweat Pants Deep Dashiki Sweatpant Sweatpants | Photo – Pinterest There has been nothing but massive love for sweatpants this year. Before its becoming a trend, it was relatively cheap but there was a hike in prices the minute it became high in demand fashion item. Off The Shoulder Dresses Off-Shoulder Mermaid Ankara Gown Dress | Photo – The Nigerian Wedding Making its way as a trend from 2017, the off shoulder fad found its way into 2018 and we are not complaining. The dynamism of this style has ensured that it has come here to stay and we will surely see more of it. The off shoulder dress can either be worn one-sided or balanced at two sides. Exposing the upper part of the body was something many opted for and many gatherings, functions, events and parties saw a display of upper body parts. Cross Bag/Sling Bag (Fanny pack) A woman rocking a fanny pack | Photo – Fabwoman You know it is a trend when stars like Wizkid, Tiwa Savage, Toke Makinwa, Kizz Daniel, Davido and Olamide rock it. We saw the cross/sling bag trend on red carpets, stages, and the streets. So many people have re-enacted this style, and it never gets tiring. Chelsea Boots The craze for Chelsea boots amongst Nigerian men started this year because of its professional and smart look. With the Chelsea boots, an average person can easily achieve a youthful look, especially when worn on jeans. Yoruba Demons (Angels) Ebuka Obi-Uchendu in agbada | Photo – Shakra Naija If you consider yourself a stylish person and don’t have at least one outfit that classifies you as a Yoruba demon (or angel if you please) then you haven’t been at the peak of your style game in 2018. Majorlyachieved with the Agbada, some other ways everyone keyed into this is with Ankara clothing, senator wears, and dashiki styles. The best part is that although made popular by men, even women keyed into the trend and let’s not forget we owe thanks to the Agbada King, Ebuka Obi-Uchendu for making Agbada clothing even more popular than it already is. There are still many more fashion trends making noise in 2018. Which other fashion trend deserves to be on this list?