 Brokers on the floor of Nigerian Stock Exchange in Lagos.  They argued that this would help sustain the gradual recovery witnessed currently in the stock market, and attract additional fund, adding that due to the heightened political atmosphere; foreign portfolio investors have pulled out over N500 billion from the nation’s stock market.
 
They maintained that if the process is perceived to be unbiased, free and fair without political undertone, it would trigger a ‘return’ of investors to the stock market, and ultimately guarantee the expected post-election rebound.  “But the market is still fragile considering the fact that the political risk is still there, people are still jittery in view of elections antecedents, but at the conclusion will determine how well investors will interpret the state of affairs in the country.
   
He added: “If the election turns out to be very successful and nothing negative witnessed, we then see the true picture of the market. The political risk will no longer determine the direction of the market; it will now be determined by fundamentals of the economy.”
 
The Managing Director, Crane Securities Limited, Mike Ezeh, said government must ensure that investment environment is conducive for investors, especially the foreigners to operate, which can be achieved by ensuring high level of stability in the forthcoming elections. “The economy has been battered seriously, even the GDP was affected- the per capita income and the little money in the pocket of ordinary Nigerians, not to talk of investors, all culminated in the downward trend in the market.
 
“If Government ensures the security of investment, they (foreign investors) will come; they are looking for where to invest their money. They migrate from one country to another looking for economic havens, and where interest rate is good with security of capital.”
 
The Chief Relationship Officer, Foreshore Securities Limited, Charles Fakrogba, said: “I want to advise the government to ensure that politics will not have negative effects on the economy; government must provide a level playing field for everybody whether you are an opposition party or support the current government.
 
“Once Nigerians see that the elections are free and fair, we are going to see stability. However, if it is perceived by the average Nigerian that the process is biased, it will affect the economy. Therefore, government must provide a level playing field for everybody in the political space.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .