Singer cum actress, Miley Cyrus has shut down reports that she is pregnant with the most timely pop culture reference. The recently wedded Cyrus used the egg that became the most liked Instagram photo ever to slam reports that she is expecting a baby with husband, Liam Hemsworth. The 26-year-old “Wrecking Ball” hitmaker used the egg that recently dethroned Kylie Jenner’s first picture of baby Stormi Webster as the most liked Instagram photo ever as a source of puns in which to deny the pregnancy report. Reacting to a Daily Mail Twitter post titled “Miley Cyrus and Liam Hemsworth ‘are expecting their first child together,’” the 26-year-old used the egg that recently dethroned Kylie Jenner’s first picture of baby Stormi Webster as the most liked Instagram photo ever as a source of puns in which to deny the pregnancy report. She wrote, “I’m not ‘Egg-xpecting’ but it’s ‘Egg-celent’ to hear everyone is so ‘Happy For Us’….we’re happy for us too!” she tweeted back to the story and used a picture of the egg covering her belly. “‘Egg-cited’ for this next chapter in our lives….Now, can everyone leave me alone and go back to staring at an egg?” she continued. The rumours about the “Malibu” crooner’s pregnancy started after a gust of wind had taken her vintage Versace shirt and puffed it up to look like she had a baby bump while she was visiting Miami last week, even though in the same set of photos the “bump” was gone as the wind died down. She even superimposed a photo of her smile with her tongue out on top of the egg. See the photo below: Miley Cyrus in Miami | Photo – Twitter The Daily Mail article on Cyrus originated in OK Australia, which ran an article claiming, “Miley’s over the moon because she’s carrying Liam’s baby… It’s a girl, which is what [they] hoped for. He called his brothers and parents. [Miley] got him to Skype call her family, too. Her mum was crying,” which Miley made fun of with her “everyone is so happy for us” reference. The report further claimed that the couple would move to Liam’s native Australia so they could raise their baby next door to his brother Chris Hemsworth and wife Elsa Pataky‘s home in Byron Bay outside Sydney.