 Jidenna  Though the show started behind schedule, the long delay resulted in a prolonged red carpet session, which was an opportunity for guests to network and unwind. For a young fashion designer, being on the MVP red carpet is enough to build a comprehensive fashion catalogue. As for those, who couldn’t make it to the venue, especially music lovers outside Lagos, the glamorous ceremony was screened the event live via Soundcity channels on pay-tv platforms and online. A night of honours for showbiz personalities, the stage eventually came alive with OAP Do2dtun, who sparked excitement in the crowd. Then came performances by the likes of Idowest, Slimcase, Mz Kizz, Oladips, Chinko Ekun, Naira Marley, Kida Kudz, Skibbi, Mystro and Wetin We Gain singer, Victor AD. Soon after the first set of performances, the hosts comprising of SoundCity’s VJ Adams and Moet Abebe took charge of proceedings and ushered guests into the event proper. The first winner of the night was Wande Coal, who won the Viewer’s Choice for So Mi So. Burna Boy picked up his first award on the night for Listener’s Choice, while Actress Shola Fapson presented the award for Best Group/Duo to Navy Kenzo from Tanzania. Meanwhile, Best New Artiste award went to Teni, whose fans base seems to be growing by the day. Patoranking took over the stage with his live band, performing a number of his hits, including Suh Different, Alubarika and Available. It was cheers all the way, as the Ebonyi State native served the audience the best of his repertoire. The next set of awards featured Best Collaboration, which went to Starboy for Soco, while Digital Artist of the year award went to Mr Eazi. Though he was conspicuously missing from the event, he received his award via a video recording, which was screened at the event.Other winners for the night include Patoranking for Video of the year, Busiswa for Best Female MVP, Best Male MVP to Burna Boy and Producer of the year won by Phantom for Ye. DJ Neptune won the African DJ of the year, AKA clinched Best Hip-Hop, while Burna Boy returned on stage to pick the awards for Song of the year and African Artist of the year. Receiving the award on behalf of Burna, who was out of the country at the time of the ceremony, Bose Ogulu, mother of the Afrofusion singer, thanked God and also praised Quilox owner, ShinaPeller for providing a studio for the hit song YE.“Thank you ShinaPeller for providing a studio when he thought all he was providing was a nightclub… Thank you, God, for BurnaBoy.“If YE is the song of the year then Phantom should be the producer of the year. This is Phantom (pointing at the producer), I am happy he is the African producer of the year. “Thank you to the fans, thank you to Youtube. Thank you Kanye West for making a mistake and calling your album YE,” the proud mother, who was instrumental to Burna Boy’s success story, said.Other performances on the night include Busiswa, who gave a truly electric performance to the admiration of the crowd. Niniola later joined the singer on stage as they performed Magun remix. Teni got everyone singing to Case, before paving the way for rappers, ill Bliss, Phyno and AKA for the rhymes and rhythm session. Homboy Jidenna got the last slot and wrapped the show with his electrifying display. The Soundcity MVP Awards Festival is an initiative of Soundcity TV, which awards plaques to musicians and performers across Africa. Since 2007, the winners are chosen by the viewers and fans by visiting #TheMVPs’ website and a select committee of the industry stakeholder. The awards are presented annually and broadcast live on Soundcity TV on DStv, GOtv, TalkTalk UK, Soundcity Radio Network and Soundcity Android and iOS app as well as online on the SoundcityTV website, YouTube and other social media accounts.