Is there anything P!nk can’t do? The answer is looking like a capital NO as she has now ventured into wine business! The 39-year-old multiple Grammy award-winning songstress has released the first batch of her own wine label. The “Try” hitmaker who recommends relaxing with a beer after one of her high-energy shows, even though her drink of choice is wine sold out the first 114 cases rolled out. In an interview with the Philadelphia Inquirer, P!nk said, “I think every 10-year-old at Hanukkah hates wine, so, to be fair, it’s an age thing, probably. I mean, we didn’t grow up with money and my mom drank terrible wine and I felt like it was a punishment. But as I was travelling and going around the world, my manager, he’s Australian, I visited a bunch of wineries there with him. [He] had really good taste and a really nice budget, and I started drinking Châteauneuf-du-Pape and I fell in love. That was the a-ha wine for me, the first one. And then it sort of just became a rabbit hole for me.”  The “We Are Here” crooner who has been honing her wine craft ever since purchasing a 25-acre vineyard in Santa Barbara County five years ago with her husband, former professional motocross competitor Carey Hart, decided to name her wine, “Two Wolves”. The name is after a Cherokee parable about the opposing forces of good and evil and how they battle within everyone. Prior to committing to the project, the “Just Give Me a Reason” hitmaker’s attempts to make wine were failures. “I tried in my closet about 15 years ago in a carboy, and basically made poison,” she jokingly recalled. Following the failure, she immersed herself in winemaking classes at UCLA and discovered a new love of chemistry after having avoided the subject in high school. She also visited the great wine regions of the world, from France to Australia to South Africa and back to Northern and Central California. Her label currently sells online only to nine states and Washington, D.C and the first 114 cases went up for sale on November 26, 2018. Two Wolves plans to make the next batch of wine available for online sale in April. Despite her busy career as a musician and performer (and now winemaker), Pink somehow keeps everything in motion. “It’s a lot. I feel like I have three full-time jobs,” she said. “Being a touring artist, making wine and launching a wine brand, being a mama. Sometimes I ask myself, what the hell am I thinking, but I love it all.”