 Sunshine Queens are sure of doing well at the forthcoming NWFL Super Four Championship.  The NWFL Super Four Championship will hold at the Agege Stadium from January 24 to 27 with Sunshine Queens battling titleholders, Nasarawa Amazons, Bayelsa Queens and Aiteo Cup winners, Rivers Angels.The Owena Babes are outsiders of sorts, as they are the only new team among the sides that competed in the last edition of the competition in Benin City, Edo State. Despite their tag as the underdogs of the competition, Wemimo is optimistic that they would hold their own in the competition, especially as bookmakers did not give them any chance of qualifying for the competition“Of course, we cannot come to Lagos to make the numbers, rather we are coming to the 2018 NWPL Super Four competition to contest for the top prize.“In fact, our aim is to lift the league crown at the expense of the favourites, Rivers Angels, Nasarawa Amazons and Bayelsa Queens. “Last edition we worked very hard to make the spot but missed it narrowly, we went back to our trenches, re-worked our strategies and here we are in the 2018 Super Four.“Truly, we were overlooked as possible qualifiers by the bookmakers but we proved them wrong. “We are equally going to further prove our detractors and doubters wrong by going all the way to lift the coveted trophy.“I have hardworking and quality players who are ever ready to prove themselves at any given time including at the highest stage to deliver the goods. “We consider the Super Four task a huge challenge and we have been working very hard to make it a sweet memory of all times.“The host state, Lagos is a familiar terrain. As a coach I have played several and fruitful matches right there.“Of course, as a player then with the defunct Oladimeji Tigress of llorin, Lagos was a place I visited severally to prosecute matches. So I am quite homely playing the Super Four competition there.” “I’m confident that our brand and style of football will draw the biggest fans behind us which will serve as a tonic for us to go all the way to lifting the coveted league title,” said the coach, who was Nigeria’s assistant coach to the last Fifa U20 Women’s World Cup in Canada.The Akure side will kick-off their title chase against Group A winners, Bayelsa Queens and a win will automatically take them to the final where they will confront the winners between defending champions, Nasarawa Amazons and Aiteo Cup winners, Rivers Angels. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .