 [FILES] Madam Rebecca Sharibu, mother of Leah Sharibu, sobs while at a press conference in Jos, yesterday. <br />  Indeed, the landscape can sometimes seem such a moral morass that finding joy, hope or inspiration is an arduous task. The search is often in vain for those whose lives teach the important lesson that no man can be a first rate person in any form or field if his own life is all there is to him. This is the bedrock of the monumental corruption and poor leadership now poised to kill Nigeria. In this very dark chapter of Nigeria’s history, however, one person has chosen to write a bright message of love, selflessness, courage and hope to her compatriots. The story of Leah Sharibu’s capture and her continued detention by the Boko Haram insurgents in the north east of Nigeria as a result of her defiance of compromise and refusal to renounce her faith is the stuff of legend. Leah, then 14, was abducted with 109 other girls of the Government Girls Science and Technical College, Dapchi, Yobe State on February 19, 2018 just as the students were ready for dinner. Of the 110 girls abducted, five died in captivity while 104 were released on March 20, 2018. Leah Sharibu alone was not released because she refused to renounce her faith and convert to Islam as demanded by her captors. Still in captivity till date, despite President Muhammadu Buhari’s acceptance of our charge to do everything to free her, she has since become the symbol of Nigeria’s refusal to give in to agents of darkness, hell-bent on dividing the country and appropriating a section of the nation’s territory unto themselves. By her principled stand, the battle for the soul of Nigeria has become one between a young girl with a heart and a garrison of devils with no souls. Leah remains missing but she has not missed her way. In the face of terror, she found a true guide in her heart and is now the number one soldier on the frontline in defence of Nigeria’s integrity, values and aspirations to unity, peace and progress. She turned down personal liberty and chose to put her life on the line so that the whole of Nigeria may fulfill the promise of freedom and prosperity. To find life, we must live it purposefully. To live it purposefully, we must find ideals to live by. Leah is teaching the nation that one could suffer, even die, by having the courage of his or her convictions but that there is a fate much worse: non-fidelity to any ideals. Indeed, her story teaches her beleaguered nation that even in these seemingly dark, uncertain hours, there is still enough light of courage and character by which to find our way home. With Leah Sharibu’s conduct, a compelling case has now been made for the Nigerian woman, courageous and resilient in all of life’s battles, as the lodestar a nation can only ignore to its own peril. A case has also been made for a review of Nigeria’s educational content to now include educating in morals and in conscience. More than all the bombs and bullets trained on the terrorists, Leah’s strength has exposed the weakness of her captors and dealt them the kind of defeat that years of armed combat have not inflicted. Her defiance has thrown up the Boko Haram insurgents for who they are: lily-livered rogues who have neither ideological nor tenable religious convictions. Worse still, they lack the courage to admit such emptiness and are shorn of the willingness to learn that which they do not understand. It has taken an innocent girl’s defiance to show that lacking in any allegiance to the dictates of all religions, especially peace, which human creation embodies, the terrorists’ value for humanity is defined only by the guns they carry, the scum in the space between their ears and the mayhem they inflict on innocent people. Leah Sharibu’s fate today is not enviable. Hers is a hard place no one wants to be in. But she is in a high place, in the hearts of humanity, in the best chapters of history today and in the future. She is a true heroine. And for being the goddess of a nation’s resistance to terror, she is The Guardian’s Person of the Year 2018. Her story, a genuine profile in courage, is well told by Dr Tony Okeregbe, a member of our Editorial Board on pages 4 & 5. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .