 Minister of Youth and Sports Development , Solomon Dalung  Speaking at the opening ceremony of the International Para-Powerlifting competition, which began on Sunday and will end on January 31, Dalung reminded the athletes that the beauty of participation in a competition went beyond the euphoria of winning. Seven countries, including Ghana, Cameroun, Guinea, Cote d’Ivoire, Central African Republic, Tanzania and hosts, Nigeria are participating in the competition. While urging the countries to compete fairly in the spirit of sportsmanship, Dalung also appealed to the officials to mediate with integrity and ensure that the competition ended credibly. Dalung had earlier commended Peak Milk for devoting valuable resources to the development and sustenance of the para-powerlifting sport.He said, “The success story of which we are all part of today is the outcome of support and contribution of our prospective partners in the country. I want to recognise and appreciate the contribution of FrieslandCampina Wamco Nigeria, producers of the household brand, Peak milk among other products, who have remained a reliable, ever willing and supportive partner in the progress of the Para-powerlifting Federation in particular and sports development in Nigeria in general. “FrieslandCampina Wamco, has been of tremendous support to Nigeria Para-powerlifting Federation in many ways including the following Peak milestones, which includes the refurbishment and equipping of the para-powerlifting gymnasium of the National Stadium Lagos in 2018.”
  
While acknowledging the Minister’s commendation, Marketing Director of FrieslandCampina Wamco, Chris Wulff-Caesar, who also sits on the organising committee of the competition, expressed confidence that with the nutritional values of Peak milk, the para-powerlifters will finish tops at the end of the competition. “We are solidly behind you Unstoppables and we believe you will reach for your Peak at this competition,” he said. Also speaking at the event, one of the sponsors, Total Oil Nigeria commended the Nigeria Para-Powerlifting Federation and all the local and international teams, managers, coaches, event partners and stakeholders that have worked hard to make the event a reality. According to the Country Chair, Nicolas Terraz, “Total Oil is supporting the 2019 para-powerlifting competition because the ideals of para-sports are very much aligned to our vision of diverse and inclusive societies where everyone is enabled to contribute. “Nigeria has distinguished herself in the para-powerlifting sports at both continental and Olympic events. We have our para-athletes to thank for their excellent performances and for bringing glory to the country since the inception of its federation in 1991. “In line with this, Total Group is a signatory to the International Labour Organisation’s Global Business and Disability Network Charter and our subsidiary in Nigeria is adopting the International Labour Organisation 2 charter (ILO2), which promotes policies and practices that protect them from discrimination. We are really proud to say that Total is a pillar of sports development in Africa,” he stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .