Gboyega Nasir Isiaka Governorship candidate of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) in Ogun State, Gboyega Isiaka, has alerted that he discovered a “clandestine and well-orchestrated plan” by some political parties to manipulate the March 2 governorship election in the state. During a press conference at his campaign office in Abeokuta, yesterday, Isiaka failed to name the parties involved, insisting that his findings revealed that those concerned had mapped out four different plots to rig the election. The plans, he disclosed, included releasing of political thugs to “unleash violence in many polling booths, to compromise the collation of the election results.” According to the two-time governorship candidate, the plotters intend to declare polls results inconclusive and force a re-run in premeditated polling booths. He appealed to the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Prof. Abdulganiyu Raji, and his team “not to lend themselves to the sinister plot of these antidemocratic elements.” Isiaka emphatically expressed the party’s preparedness to defend the votes. He scored Governor Ibikunle Amosun low in performance, saying the citizens could not afford another four or eight years of a failed rebuilding mission in any guise. His words: “At this juncture, l wish to – and on behalf of our party – raise the alarm about the clandestine and well-orchestrated plan by known opposition political parties to manipulate the March 2, 2019 gubernatorial election. “In the last few weeks, we have been inundated with impeccable information and security reports about the grand plot by these elements to deliberately compromise that election.” “They have hatched four different rigging plans. Their first plan is to unleash thugs to precipitate violence in many polling booths and compromise the collation of election results up to close figures and push it to a point of having overall results declared as inconclusive (in a first run scenario) and then force a rerun in premeditated polling booths within a particular senatorial district (name withheld); where they then hope to cement the plot by outright intimidation and harassment of our party members or sympathetic electorate. “The recent controversial Osun State governorship election comes to memory. The full details and mode of operation of implementing these plans will be kept away from this conference for both security and strategic reasons. However, we must state that this grand plot is their response to an apparent defeat at the polls.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .