 [FILES] Governor of Benue State Samuel Ortom speaks about internally displaced people and farmer’s violent clashes from Logo and Guma communities at Gbajimba IDPs camp outskirts of Makurdi, capital of  Benue State in northcentral Nigeria on January 4, 2018.<br />Nomadic cattle herders have all but left Benue state, driven away by fighting over access to resources and a new law banning migratory herding, an age-old practice necessary for the survival of the livestock. More than 100 people have been killed since early January, with 100,000 fleeing their homes to safety, according to the local emergency management agency (SEMA). After months of inaction, the Nigerian army announced the imminent deployment of troops for “Operation Cat Race” in several city states, including Benue to end the violence.  / AFP PHOTO / PIUS UTOMI EKPEI  Ortom, the coordinator of Atiku’s campaign in the North Central, made the call during a special prayer session organised by North Central PDP Coalition for Atiku Abubakar 2019 at Faith Way Chapel International, Jos, Plateau State. Represented by his Principal Special Adviser on Special Duties and Administration, Dr. Joseph Antyo, the governor said: “In the efforts to instal Atiku Abubakar as Nigeria’s next president in 2019, we need God in the project, because with God all things are possible. “The choice of Atiku is an effort to rebuild this nation, anchored on his vast experience as a successful private investor and a God-fearing leader. We want all Nigerians, especially Christians, to join us in these prayers by dedicating their time through their various churches to organise prayers for Atiku.” General overseer of the Faith Way Chapel International, Rev. (Dr.) Sam Alaha, who led the prayer, said: “It is wise for the coalition to surrender their political programme to God and it is good that the coalition believes that all powers belong to God and whoever seeks power must come to God for blessings.” Meanwhile, former governor of Benue, Gabriel Suswam, has urged Benue electorate to vote out those that have been selling their land, but vote in those that would ensure the survival of Benue as a people. Speaking during the PDP Benue north-west senatorial campaign flag-off at JS Tarka Institute of Political Studies, Gboko, at the weekend, Suswam expressed disgust that for four years, Benue was not included in the scheme of things at the federal level. He expressed dismay that the present federal government, to bring the people of the state into extinct, had continued to neglect the state and allowed its citizens to be killed daily by marauding herdsmen. “Nobody should be fooled that the All Progressives Congress (APC) will work for the interest of the state or even the country, if voted again in the 2019 elections. “We have suffered as a people these three and a half years. For us, this is not about party; it is about our very survival as a people. “If you want to remain as a slave, you will remain in the broom. If you put APC before you, your survival as a people is gone. “Let nobody fool you that he is at the senate struggling to get your share. Where is your share of the national cake he has brought home to you since you sent him there? “Orker Jev (PDP senatorial candidate) is a dogged parliamentarian. Vote him to fight for your share; he won’t allow your share pass you by,” he added. Earlier, Jev had advised the people to beware of those who come out every political season to deceive them to vote for them. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .