The United States and the United Kingdom have expressed concerns over the suspension of Walter Onnoghen as Nigeria’s chief justice. Nigeria president Muhammadu Buhari on Friday swore in Ibrahim Tanko Muhammed as the new acting Chief Justice of Nigeria to replace embattled Onnoghen. His swearing-in followed Onnoghen’s suspension by the president, who acted based on an order by the Code of Conduct Tribunal. Onnoghen is facing a six-count charge of non-declaration of assets when he became the chief justice of Nigeria. Buhari said the allegations against Onnoghen were “grievous enough”. However, the UK government said that the “timing of this action, so close to national elections, gives cause for concern.” “It risks affecting both domestic and international perceptions on the credibility of the forthcoming elections,” the statement reads. Nigeria heads to poll in less than a month. “We, along with other members of the international community, are following developments closely,” the statement read. While the United State’s Embassy in Nigeria, on the other hand, said it “is deeply concerned by the impact of the executive branch’s decision to suspend and replace the Chief Justice and head of the judicial branch without the support of the legislative branch on the eve of national and state elections.” “We note widespread Nigerian criticism that this decision is unconstitutional and that it undermines the independence of the judicial branch. That undercuts the stated determination of government, candidates, and political party leaders to ensure that the elections proceed in a way that is free, fair, transparent, and peaceful – leading to a credible result. “We urge that the issues raised by this decision be resolved swiftly and peacefully in accordance with due process, full respect for the rule of law, and the spirit of the Constitution of Nigeria. Such action is needed urgently now to ensure that this decision does not cast a pall over the electoral process.” “It is our hope that President Buhari will listen to the voice of all lovers of democracy the world over and restore democracy in Nigeria immediately and without qualifications.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .