 Managing Director, FrieslandCampina Wamco Nigeria Plc, Ben Langat (third from right, back row), Marketing Director, Chris Wulff-Caesar (second from right, back row) and Corporate Affairs Director, Mrs. Oreoluwa Famurewa, with some para-powerlifting athletes at the National Stadium, Lagos… at the weekend.  The support it said at the weekend will come in form of nutritional values and training facilities. Speaking during a visit to the team’s National Stadium, Lagos camp at the weekend, Managing Director of FrieslandCampina Wamco, manufacturers of Peak Milk, Ben Langat urged the team to show why its is one of the most feared teams in world powerlifting. Langat led FrieslandCampina Wamco management on a morale-boosting visit to the Nigerian Para-powerlifters camp ahead of the Lagos 2019 Para-Powerlifting tournament, which began yesterday at the Oriental Hotel in Lekki, Lagos. “In the past, we have seen you make Nigeria proud in competitions outside the shores of the country and now that it is in your domain, I want to assure you that we are going to give you all the necessary support you need to clinch all the medal. “FrieslandCampina Wamco is very happy to be associated with you the ‘Unstoppable Team’ because you have inspired lots of life and we want you to continue in that same spirit so that others will continue to learn from your successes. Langlat told the elated Para-powerlifters. “We began this journey together with you and we want to continue to build on that success and as a result of that, the bus we promised you will be here to ease your mobility at all times because it is equipped with very modern facilities,” he told the athletes. Earlier, Director of Corporate Affairs, FrieslandCampina Wamco Plc., Mrs. Oreoluwa Famurewa told the athletes that Peak Milk would continue to provide them with the needed dairy products to nourish their body on daily basis to improve their health and well-being. Meanwhile, Lagos will host the International Para-Powerlifting Competition at the Oriental Hotels, Victoria Island. The weeklong championship is being supported by the Lagos State Government through the state’s Sports Commission with provision of accommodation, feeding, medical, transportation, security, ceremonial, venue and facilities. Chairman of Lagos State Sports Commission, Dr. Kweku Tandoh said that all is set for successful hosting of the competition as the state government has put in place all the necessary logistics needed for the hosting. “We have put in place all necessary arrangement to host this international championship in Lagos,” Tandoh said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .