 Executive Producer, God Calling, Ibukun Awosika (left); lead actor Karibi Fubara, lead actress Zainab Balogun, Pastors Paul and Ifeanyi Adefarasin of House on the Rock at the movie premiere  In the midst of these crises, Sade embarks on a journey of self-discovery. Faith sets in, as God reaches out to her through her cell phone. Sade, a calm and easygoing character, encounters God when she loses focus as to what her life is turning into. While trying to understand God’s purpose in her life alongside accepting her new found love for God – living and practicing His will, everything turns around and there is positive change forever, even for those who come in contact with her family. The film is an upgraded version of faith-based flicks that characterise Nollywood. In fact, its style of execution will easily entice anyone bored of the conventional faith-based films. Telephone is the eye of the camera through which every action is seen. It is a metaphor for relationship, which guides the basic existence of everybody. Telephone communicates and also bonds uers. Little wonder Sade’s relationship with God through the phone call is best described as God On Demand – GOD. In today’s world, depicting God’s call to man through the phone is quite relatable, as everybody uses mobile phone. The call also tells how accessible God – an omnipotent being – is to man, since most people today have taken to their phones as companion and partner.No wonder Sade’s friend, Simi, played by Bikiya Graham Douglas, who is on the verge of divorce too, is advised by her friend to hold on to God. The tone of the movie, though subtle, drives the message and makes every scene better. Bar the scene, which has Francis and his father-in-law, played by Richard Mofe-Damijo, disagreeing on an issue in a civil manner, which perpetually echoes, thus, making you  you to wonder if it’s a technical fault or a way of stressing on their conversation, the tone is commendable. Such echo in voices can only be seen in one-way conversations, flashbacks, and of course, when a spiritual being delivers a message. The actors further do justice to their roles, as their characterisation points to being at home in every movie they appear. Papa Francis, played by Nkem Owoh, brings a whole lot of humour that add spice to the movie. The choice music and soundtracks further deepen the emotions, especially Alagbara by Onos. The technical team for the movie is also on the A-game – with the transitions of Sade  while encountering God, her fall into the third mainland bridge, having an encounter with hell, feeling the fierce heat and her father’s halved leg all are topnotch reality delivery.In all, the movie directed by BB Sasore, who is known for his award winning flicks,  Before 30 and Banana Island Ghost, is not a surprise for his delivery in God Calling.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .