 Tony Elumelu  Speaking at the launch in Lagos, Elumelu noted that TEF Connect platform is a contemporary, intuitive, informative and user-friendly go-to entrepreneurship space, which provides five specific benefits to its users, among others. According to him, “in the four years, since the launch of the TEF Entrepreneurship Programme, we have shown that entrepreneurship can change a continent – we have invested in people and processes. We have already helped create business successes and brought policymakers into the entrepreneurial dynamic. “But in many ways, we are scratching the surface. This year, we are broadening our scope, taking the conversation to where interaction is increasingly occurring – the digital realm. By connecting African entrepreneurs globally on TEFConnect, we are further unleashing the true potential of our entrepreneurs and transforming the continent.” Specifically, he noted that the platform is a one-stop digital home for entrepreneurship ecosystem players, including entrepreneurs, incubators, investors, academia and the private sector, providing news, informative resources, entrepreneurship events and opportunities, creating the space to allow African entrepreneurs transact across countries and regions in Africa’s largest digital market place. with traffic reaching millions of consumers, access to free business tools such as financial planning calculators, business plan generators and marketing templates.. Similarly, the CEO of the Foundation, Parminder Vir OBE, said: “The Tony Elumelu Foundation is simply about empowering African entrepreneurs. First, we launched the TEF Entrepreneurship Programme, to provide 10,000 African entrepreneurs, over a period of 10 years with seed capital, mentorship and training. Next, we convened the full entrepreneurial ecosystem at the TEF Forum to foment engagement and deliberate discussions to change the narrative of Africa. Now, we are scaling our impact by connecting African entrepreneurship ecosystem on a single platform.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .