 Olawepo-Hashim  He said using money to lure masses to campaign rallies to create the impression that the president is popular might not be enough cover to justify whatever outcome that might be produced from the polls.
 
The source disclosed that when the candidate of Peoples Trust (PT), Mr. Gbenga Olawepo-Hashim, was suggested the near unanimity among those present showed dissension, stressing that while “those of us from Northwest were in support of Hashim, our brothers from Northeast did not want to have anything like that.”  “History will note that he has been there. Nigeria now needs a man with better physical and mental soundness, with an active mind and intellect.”
    
Also a former buxom friend of President Buhari, Buba Galadima, has in media interactions referred to the shenanigans of the President’s handlers, stressing that the cabal knows the truth they are bent on force-feeding him to Nigerians for their selfish interest.
 
But National Publicity Secretary of APC, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, told The Guardian that I cannot respond to such a mischievous imputation, pointing out that as far as he was concerned, “President Buhari is sound in mind and body.” He debunked as rumours making the rounds that the party was already considering the option of adopting any of the presidential candidates from opposition political parties from the Northwest over fears that President Buhari is unfit to administer the country. The APC spokesperson expressed surprise over the notion in certain quarters that President Buhari will not be able to survive a second term if elected, arguing that President Buhari’s resolve to lead the nationwide campaigns of the party was enough pointer that nothing untoward has happened to him. He said: “The president has demonstrated not only that he is ready but is also agile, healthy, focused to run the race. The naysayers have said he would not be able to campaign and that he has passed such responsibility to Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. But they are same people now crying that they are overburdening the president over the campaign. “The president is facing this election squarely because he is a man with a mission and he has taken upon himself the responsibility to achieve the goal. And it has pleased God to actually support him to succeed in the interest of Nigerians. The president has a place in history in delivering good governance to Nigerians. I found the question as to whether the party is scouting for his replacement in the North-West not only very funny but irresponsible, I am sorry to say.” On his part, the PT Presidential candidate said initially the president’s men, commonly referred to as the cabal, did not want him on the ballot, citing the crisis in Alliance of New Nigeria (ANN), “But that disposition has suddenly changed and it is Atiku people that are all out after me.”
   
Hashim rejected suggestions that the recent endorsement of his candidature by the North Central geopolitical (Middle Belt) was precipitated by some members of ‘the cabal’ or as a result of the secret post Jumat prayer meeting in Abuja last week.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .