 [FILES] Buhari  I wanted to hear straight from him about the scandalous contract award allegation that broke out against President Buhari’s Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari. The gentleman was unequivocal in his conviction that the Chief of Staff owed Nigerians some explanation on what transpired between him and Baba Waziri Abba Kyari, a native of Bama Local Government of Borno State and a relative of the Chief of Staff. Figures were mentioned and dates were quoted. Mr. Musa relayed how the DSS under Lawal Daura, the sacked DSS Boss arrested and dehumanized Baba	Waziri, Abba Kyari’s accuser. I also watched a video of the uncontrollable tears of DSP Tijani Bulama who was	investigating Kyari and who was also detained. Having been accused of turning a blind eye, EFCC eventually said it was not shying away from investigating Abba Kyari. Just that “a case of this nature deserved sometime to handle”. Curiously, on the 9th of September 2018, the Presidency had again characteristically, rose in defense of Abba Kyari describing the allegation as	 false. This I am certain must have foreclosed EFCC’s investigation. Or will Magu override his employers? Not likely. Today, Kyari is still the power-that-be in the Villa, and is revered like an hegemonic demigod. Ordinary Ahmed Musa has been tossed aside like an Ordinary Rabble Rouser! In his passionate voice for justice for the oppressed, I sensed frustration, anger and a shattered hope for the Nigeria of his dream. This nation was therefore rudely shocked to observe the speed with which a petition from an NGO, ran by a close associate of President Buhari against the sitting CJN of Nigeria received speedy attention. This Petition of the “CSO”, was submitted January 9, the charge sheet was prepared by CCB and filed before CCT January 10, the petition itself was written January 7. When did this government become this expeditious in handling petitions of infractions? Let us be clear: Justice Onnoghen should face the music if he was found culpable as being such a “forgetful” crook. It is fine by me. But what makes him such a target of a clean-up exercise that Abba Kyari was too saintly to taste? Why is Onnoghen being hounded in the same country where Minister Kemi Adeosun was indulged, defended and protected until public outcry saw to her exit? 
Worthy of note, the President also did not direct her to trial for alleged certificate forgery. He actually “thanked her for her service to the nation” on the 14th September, 2018. The nation is still wonderstruck at how this administration handled the Maina saga. No one is even interested again since a government of integrity has no clue what to do. Since Premium Times called out Honorable Minister Adebayo Shittu on his NYSC skipping scandal, this administration has pretended not to hear it. Premium Times on the 9th of November 2018, also accused the same Shittu of tax default, accusing him of shortchanging the nation; this government has kept sealed lips. The list is endless of Buhari’s untouchables. And now you want to ram down our throats the preachment of transparency and altruism in your attempted coup d’état to upend the Nigerian Judiciary? Mr. President, some truth won’t hurt as follows: Apart from your paid agents and bandwagon followers who are victims of Stockholm syndrome, no serious, analytical mind believes you! Close to the election, many Nigerians believe your game plan is to annex the Judiciary ahead of the elections so you can coast home to an uninterrupted victory even if you’re dragged before the courts over electoral malpractices which you may not expressly endorse but which your entitlement-driven, overzealous aides might not mind to do. Mr. President, Onnoghen is a Nigerian as others you appointed whose acts of malfeasance made us shout our voices hoarse before you grudgingly acted upon their matters. And for the usual town-criers who will always cry than the bereaved, something is not right when we adopt coloured standards just so we can protect and hail on our political Idols. President Buhari is human who can hit a miss and score low on occasional blunders. It is our civic responsibility to love him but to also question him. There is a grave danger however, when you praise everything and anything a leader does like he is infallible – this is how tyrants are made. How come those of you who “stood by Kemi” then are now calling for Onnoghen’s head. This is double standard at its odoriferous height! President Buhari, your integrity branding before you came to power has diminished. Time is running out for you to exit your glorious public career in untainted robes. It could be now and it could be in 2023…But the truth is, you’ve seen it all and providence has been kind on you. This seeming embrace of divisive tactics and selective justice may completely darken your history. It is my fervent hope that these words of Ziad Abdelnour is fully taken in going forward… “Trust is earned, respect is given, and loyalty is demonstrated. Betrayal of any one of those is to lose all three”.
Concluded • Fadeyi is Executive Director, Akin Fadeyi Foundation and  convener, Corruption Not In My Country Project. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .