 Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar (second left) and others, during a campaign rally in Dutse, Jigawa State… yesterday.  Atiku, who spoke at a campaign rally in Jigawa yesterday, urged the people to vote for PDP so that as president, he could fulfil the request of the party leader and former Governor Sule Lamido for the rehabilitation and dredging of Hadejia/Jamare River Basin, which had been abandoned for over 40 years. He said for the people to exit the present poverty and hunger, they should vote en-masse for all candidates of the PDP. However, Lamido said the gathering was not for campaign but to thank the PDP family of brothers and sisters for their affection. “We believe in you, you believe in us. We came here just to say thank you for the support you have been giving to the PDP. “The candidate of the party, Atiku Abubakar, is our own son; he is our own and therefore, he has the right to request for our votes and because he is ours, the choice is between competence and incompetence, security and insecurity. Meanwhile, former Senate President, David Mark, has urged the people of Agatu to support the re-election of Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State in the forthcoming 2019 election, stressing that God will not forgive them if they fail to do so considering the governor’s fame stand to save their lives from invading herdsmen. Mark stated this yesterday in Obagaji, Agatu Local Council of the state, during the Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) campaign tour of the council. He said that Ortom had put his life on the line by signing the Open Grazing Prohibition and Ranches Establishment Law 2017, stressing that he stood in the gap for them and urged them to reciprocate the good gesture by ensuring that no vote goes outside the PDP in the forthcoming elections. Also, he stated that the Idoma nation has no option other than the PDP, even as he charged the traditional rulers to ensure that no single vote goes to another party. A second-class chief of Agatu, Dr. Godwin Onah, said the Agatu traditional council had not only given its royal blessings to the governor but also wished him a resounding victory at the polls. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .