 Chief Customer Officer, MultiChoice Nigeria, Martin Mabutho (right); Head of Customer Value Management, Seun Ikhekua, and Executive Head of Sales, Akin Salu at the MultiChoice Step-Up Campaign briefing  in Lagos.			  PHOTO: FEMI ADEBESIN-KUTI  The Step-Up offer, which will officially commence on January 15 to April 15, is opened to both active and disconnected DStv Access, Family and Compact customers while subscribers on GOtv Lite, Value, Plus and Max are also eligible. The promo gives DStv Compact, Family and Access customers the opportunity to pay for an upgrade package and get a boost to viewing higher package programmes within 48 hours of activation. DStv customers on the Access package can pay N4,000 for Family package and then get a boost to view programmes on the Compact package, while subscribers on the Family package can pay N6,800 for Compact package to view Compact Plus package programmes. Likewise, Compact customers can pay N10,650 for Compact Plus package and get Premium package programmes. The firm explained that customers on the GOtv Plus, Value and Lite customers will get upgraded to GOtv Max when they pay a N2,500, while GOtv ‘tops up’ with N700. Active and disconnected GOtv Max customers can also take advantage of this limited offer to renew their subscription for N2,500. This campaign will give GOtv customers on Plus, Value and Lite an opportunity to experience premium content available on GOtv Max including La Liga, Serie A, FA Cup, BET, Fox Entertainment, StarLife, ROK 2 and CBS Reality and more. According to the Chief Customer Officer (CCO), MultiChoice Nigeria, Martin Mabutho, the offer reiterates the company’s commitment to offering loyal customers more value for money, as they will enjoy content on a higher package than what they paid for. “We are pleased to launch this offer that will give our customers the opportunity to experience higher packages at the price of a lower package. With this offer, we are giving a boost and topping up on what our customers pay for to enjoy more on our DStv and GOtv platforms. It is our desire to make great content more accessible and we encourage our customers to take advantage of this special offer,” he said. Mabutho, who said the promo is part of the 25th year anniversary of the firm in Nigeria, added that it will enable more Nigerians to stay connected and be abreast with the latest news, sports, local content and general entertainment this first quarter. According to them, some of the exciting programming to look forward to starting from January includes matches of the 2018/19 Emirates FA Cup. This boosts MultiChoice’s major football title acquisitions, which include the Premier League, Serie A, La Liga and Champions League. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .