The Imo chapter of the ruling All Progressives Congress has suspended Governor Rochas Okorocha for anti party activities barely a month to election. “A letter by the Imo State chapter of the APC signed by the chairman conveying the suspension to the National Chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole regretted that Okorocha who is supposedly the party’s candidate for Imo West senatorial district has vowed to undermine the APC and its electoral interest,” caretaker committee chairman of the Imo APC faction,Marcellinus Nlemigbo said while speaking to journalists in Owerri on Thursday. “To save the party from the machinations of Governor Rochas Okorocha, our state Caretaker Committee highly recommends the expulsion of the governor from the APC so that he can fully move to his party, the Action Alliance,” he added. Nlemigbo stated that the party recently set up a disciplinary committee which was led by Matthew Omegara to investigate allegations of anti-party activities against Okorocha by one of its member Ikechukwu Unegbu . Following the party’s investigations the governor was found guilty for sponsoring another political party, Action Alliance (AA), and its governorship candidate in the state, Uche Nwosu. The leadership of the party,however, suspended the governor based on Article 21 (B) i–vi of the APC constitution as amended. Okorocha had been at loggerheads with the APC leadership after his anointed successor and son-in-law Uche Nwosu lost the APC governorship ticket. Nwosu lost the governorship ticket to a serving lawmaker, Senator Hope Uzodinma, who is representing Orlu constituency of Imo State in the Nigerian Senate The governor then announced that Nwosu would seek his governorship ambition on the platform of AA, but will still support Buhari’s re-election. Okorocha formed the AA in 2005 and planned to run for president on its platform in the 2007 elections. But few days ago, AA declared support for the opposition Peoples Democratic Party’s presidential candidate Atiku Abubakar for the February 16 election. “We are for Atiku/Obi leadership and we are glad to work with all believers of true federalism and efficient administration of governance at all levels to accomplish this as we approach the forthcoming elections,” AA national chairman Kenneth Udeze said at a press conference in Abuja on Monday. Okorocha is expected to contest APC senatorial seat for Imo West Senatorial district in the forthcoming election. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .