 [FILE PHOTO] Delta State Governor, H.E Sen. Dr. Ifeanyi Arthur Okowa  The governor spoke during his campaign tours of Aboh, Kwale, Ogwashi Uku, headquarters of Ndokwa East, Ndokwa West and Aniocha Aouth local government councils. While appreciating the people of Aboh for the massive turn out, Okowa said: “In continuation of our focused plan for infrastructural development, work will commence very soon at the Kwale-Okpai bridge, which is already in 2019 budget to replace the age-long pontoon, which the people have been used to. “We are aware of infrastructure needs of the people, which is why we have awarded roads construction and rehabilitation, health care faculties, schools and lots more.” The governor used the opportunity to allay the fears of those worried by the court case against the deputy speaker. He said: “With regards to those who are disturbed about the court case, there is no need to worry, because the law is clear about that. You can’t be expecting to be sworn in, in a matter that concerns PDP, when you have already decamped to the opposition party. That is not possible?” At the campaign stop in Kwale, the governor charged party faithful to ensure that the large turnout is replicated during the elections, even as he thanked them for the peace in their domain, which he said has helped his government to deliver dividends of democracy. The governor said he expects a minimum of 70,000 votes from the local government area as evidence of their strong support. Earlier in his speech, state PDP chairman, Mr. Kingsley Esiso, said, “the atmosphere we are witnessing explains that there is no other party in Ndokwa East; APC brought hunger and starvation. They brought Fulani herdsmen to rape and kill our mothers. Thank God, PDP has brought Alhaji Atiku Abubakar to chase Alhaji Muhammadu Buhari out of Aso Rock.” The Senator representing Delta North Senatorial district, Peter Nwaoboshi, speaking on behalf of all Delta North candidates, said: “I wish to express my joy for the mandate given to us at the primaries. We shall continue to represent you better. Forget about the court case involving Rt. Hon. Ifeanyi Osanebi. He remains our candidate.” Highpoint of the rallies was the donation of nine Toyota Sienna buses for the nine Delta North campaign coordinators, a Toyota Thundra truck for the Delta North coordinator, and  1,500 t-shirts and face caps respectively, among other campaign materials, by the embattled deputy speaker, Rt. Hon. Osanebi.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .