Global chairman, Tokunbo Orimobi, Michael Orimobi (right), Omobola Makinde and Adeyinka Adegbola at the Tokunbo Orimobi Foundation’s moot court competition to mark the Ruby anniversary of the law firm in Lagos…recently As part of effort to promote the legal profession, particularly among the youths, the Tokunbo Orimobi Foundation recently put together, what may be considered the first of its kind moot competition for students in four the nation’s universities. The competition, which held at the Afe Babalola Hall, University of Lagos, Akoka, was part of activities held in commemoration of the 40th anniversary of the Tokubo Orimobi law firm. Two students of the University of Ibadan, Ijeoma Rose Nnantah and Boluwatife Anjola emerged overall winners. With Anjola’s emergence as best oralist, she was given an instant job offer by the law firm upon graduation. The participating students went home with a N100, 000 each while Anjola, smiled home with an extra N50,000 for her oratory performance. Speaking at the event in Lagos, the global chairman of the firm, Michael Orimobi said the foundation focus is mentorship, education and advisory services. “We are celebrating our Ruby anniversary in several ways and one of the ways is by adopting schools. The first school we adopted is the primary school our founder attended and it is in Osun state but we don’t intend stopping there. “Being in business for four decades, we want to build and encourage the next generation. We also want to encourage and provide support to small businesses that usually run into trouble because they cannot afford quality legal services. In the nearest future, we are going to hold a ‘Black Friday’ week, where we will provide consultation and legal services to SMEs at heavily discounted prices,” he said. Orimobi expressed disappointment over the ongoing ASUU strike, which he said affected the students’ attendance of the competition. He promised that next competition would be more flexible so as to get a larger turnout. The other participating students include, Chizitere Oti and Dozie Duru from the University of Nigeria, Nsukka; Ikushika Bamidele and Tijani Taofeek from Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, and O.O Olowookere and O.I Bada from University of Lagos. While the University if Ibadan and UNN team were counsels for the plaintiff respectively, the O.A.U and UNILAG team served as first and second defendants respectively. After thorough arguments from each group, the presiding judge gave his judgment in favour of the defendants, saying the matter was premature in coming to court. With U.I taking the day at the end of the competition, O.A.U was first runner-up (second position), while UNILAG and UNN placed third and fourth respectively, with each participant going home with a certificate of participation, cash prize and a plaque for their schools. Speaking with The Guardian after the competition, Anjola said, “I feel so happy and proud of myself and grateful to God because it is not by hard work alone. I am going to take the job, I don’t have any and this is my first job offer ever in my life and I look forward to taking it up as soon as I graduate. “I feel I deserved to win the best oralist because I listened to the others and while I commend their spirit and efforts, I know I did better. I am grateful to God for the opportunity. It is the first of its kind in Nigeria and this is my first national moot competition,” he added. According Anjola, he came back to study law after obtaining a degree earlier in Library and Information Science from the University of Ibadan, as he was passionate about upholding and defending human rights. “I strongly believe this is what I was meant to do, I want to change the world and even though Law is not an end in itself, it is the means to achieving my end goal and my drive for leadership.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .