A businessman, Mr. Olayiwola Eke, has appealed to the Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mr. Ibrahim Magu, to order an investigation into the alleged illegal transfer and withdrawal from his account domiciled with Parallex Micro Finance Bank. He made the appeal in a letter dated July 15, title ‘Re: Dud Cheque, Fraudulent Transfer/ Withdrawal of Funds and Breach of Customer and Banker’s Relationship by Deacon Armstrong Oyakhilome and Parallex Micro Finance bank’. In the said letter, he stated that he had on February 9, 2018, written a petition to the commission through his counsel, Olayiwola Afolabi, wherein he reported the case of dud cheque and fraudulent transfer of funds by one Deacon Armstrong Oyakhilome. He added that on March 2018, he was informed through his counsel that the commission had approved his petition and had transferred the matter to the Benin Zonal headquarters for investigation. “In June 2018, I reported to the Benin Zonal office where I adopted the petition and provided all relevant information to an officer of the commission detailed to investigate the crime. “Since that time, nothing whatsoever has been done in furtherance of investigations”, he claimed. His petition was supported with various documents including a letter to the Parallel Micro Finance bank demanding for investigation on the unauthorized withdrawal and a letter to Oyakhilome, reminding him to pay his debt. He stated that the withdrawal was not authorized by his company, Flexcel Enterprises Limited. Eke’s lawyer maintained an unauthorized transfer / withdrawal was carried out in his client’s (Flexcel Enterprises Limited) account on June 14, 2016. “The director of our client wrote a letter when he discovered the request of the copy of document used for the withdrawal and transfer as indicated in the statement of account was refused. “We wish to state categorically that this withdrawal and transfer was not authorized by our client. We therefore request for an immediate investigation to be carried out to ascertain the actual person that made withdrawal on the account”, he stated. Earlier, Eke made an appeal to the President, Believers Loveword Inc, popularly known as Christ Embassy to call to order, Deacon Armstrong Oyakhilome for alleged breach of contracts and to pay the sum of N6,452,600, being the outstanding balance of indebtedness since 2008. He stated that sometime in 2016, his company was in relationship with Armstrong and it carried out professional cleaning services in the Sapele Jetty of Prime Feed and Flour Mill Company.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .