For those who frequent public places, especially bars, you just might soon be bidding farewell to the fear of picking up someone else’s drink at the bar. All thanks to an immersive new app that identifies drinks with beams of light. The BEAM app, which is currently in development by Cambridge Consultants, lets customers order and pay for drinks on their phone while still sitting at their table, Mail Online reports. Using near-field communications tabs on the surface of the bar, the app also streams light bubbles that link drinks to customers’ phones. Proposed BEAM app | Photo: Daily Mail Online/Cambridge Consultants According to the firm, customer experience should be ‘elevated, not just automated’. Rosie Parrish, User Experience Designer at Cambridge Consultants, said: ‘To stand out from the crowd, brands in many different sectors are striving to provide more than just a product or service.’ ‘They want to create a memorable and meaningful experience for the customer.’ ‘Blending everyday technologies in the right way is a great way to create these elevated brand engagements.’ The BEAM app simply offers an experience that begins when the customer orders drinks from their table via the app, after which they will receive an alert telling them a bartender is ready to make their drink. For instance, customers who order a glass of Merlot and a Pinot Grigio or any other drink of one’s choice will see two circles form on the top of the bar labeled as such. The bartender then places the glasses in the appropriate circles and pours the drinks, after which the machine vision system changes the status of the order and presents the name of the drink to the customer. In summary, with BEAM, it means drinks are never left unattended at the bar because they are linked to the phone as they are being prepared. Although an official launch date for the app’s commercial use is yet to be announced, this new technology is set to be demonstrated at Innovation Day 2019, which is taking place in Cambridge this week.  