 Drama as operatives of the Department of State Service (DSS) tried to re-arrest Omoyele Sowore inside the courtroom at the Federal High Court, Abuja… yesterday<br />PHOTO: LUCY LADIDI-ATEKO<br />  Without knowing it, the Department of State Services (DSS), Nigeria’s detachment of secret police, is helping Omoyele Sowore to push his agenda for #RevolutionNow. In its attempts to smother the call for citizens’ demand for good governance and accountability, the DSS has, by its unthinking procedure to emasculate the convener of #RevolutionNow and publisher of online news platform, SaharaReporters, exposed the defects in the country’s presidency.   
  
Furthermore, the hint at the country’s gradual slide into diarchy is not lost on many in the outrage that has attended the recent courthouse commotion that trailed the DSS’s Gestapo approach to re-arrest Sowore.
 
In the voices for and against, two camps have been established between those that favour fascism and enthusiastic supporters of real democracy. In all, Sowore’s counsel and democracy activist, Mr. Femi Falana, has cleverly exposed the underbelly of those championing the return to authoritarian system of government in the country. Explaining what happened in court that fateful Friday, Falana stated: “When I informed the court that fresh charges were being filed against our clients and that they could be re-arrested, the prosecution denied any such plan.  Throw back to NASS invasion
THE December 6 attempt to whisk Sowore away from the premises of a Federal High Court in Abuja came as a cheap rehash of a similar attack on the National Assembly complex on August 7, 2018, that is precisely 16 months ago.
  
On that fateful day, hooded DSS operatives barricaded the gate to the National Assembly complex. As the hooded operatives stood sentry at the NASS gate, the two presiding officers of the Senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki and Ike Ekweremadu, were also hemmed in at their respective residences.
  
Given that Saraki had by then defected to the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), there were indications that the presence of the hooded security operatives was to provide cover for APC lawmakers, who claimed to be in the majority, to change the Senate leadership.
  
The DSS’s action was greeted with massive national outcry and condemnation, just like in the current Sowore debacle. National chairman of PDP, Uche Secondus, condemned the security siege on the Abuja residences of Senate President Bukola Saraki and his deputy, Ike Ekweremadu, stressing that the DSS’s action was aimed at the forcible overthrow of the National Assembly leadership “and rendering it comatose.”
  
While describing the siege as an “attack on democracy,” the PDP national chairman declared: “It is now a known fact that democracy has collapsed in Nigeria and we are now under a totalitarian and fascist government with no appetite for the opposition.”  Divided presidency
Unlike in the National Assembly instance of last year, it is obvious that apart from conflicting voices from the presidency, there would be no consequences for the violation of the hallowed precincts of another arm of government.
  
Two months ago when the Economic Advisory Committee was empaneled and some agencies under the vice president were displaced, Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, dismissed insinuations of a quarrel between the president and his deputy.
  
Appearing on national television, Adesina stated: “You seem to forget that the vice president is the number two man in the country. If the president is away, the vice president acts because it is a joint ticket. Therefore, the new economic advisory body can also relate with the vice president when necessary.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .