The Lagos State government has assured of a crime-free Yuletide for all Lagos residents while work is at an advanced stage to unveil a smart city project in its bid to safeguard the commercial capital of the country. Speaking yesterday at the Lagos State Security Trust Fund (LSSTF) 13th annual town hall meeting on security with the governor, which was themed Transformational Security, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu said in the early months of 2020, there would be massive infrastructure development to build a smart city project. “Safeguarding a big city like Lagos has gone beyond the regular. We are going to build new data rooms, install cameras and effectively deploy technology in our operations, especially as regards to security and traffic management. “This is because we realise there are strong connections between infrastructure and security. We know that potholed streets cause traffic jams that create the potential for traffic robberies and also that properly lit streets are a disincentive to petty thieves. We are working to upgrade infrastructure across the state,” he said. On his part, the Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, said he has ordered an additional 1,000 policemen to the already deployed personnel assisting in traffic management. “This is part of our Operation keep traffic moving in Lagos ahead of Yuletide. In addition, we would be enforcing the state transport laws, especially on one-way driving and okada riders plying restricted routes. Executive Secretary of LSSTF, Dr. Abdurrazaq Balogun, said as part of efforts to explore other sources of funding, which is mainly through voluntary donations by corporate organisations and individuals, the transport sector, particularly the Road Transport Unions will be remitting part of their levies to the LSSTF on a regular basis as their activities impact more on traffic and security in the state. He noted that a total of N1.4 billion was realised in donations to the fund between January to November 2019, which was used for repairs and maintenance of security equipment, vehicles, patrol boats; procurement of patrol vehicles; construction of conducive eco-friendly police booths and general intervention to the police particularly the Rapid Response Squad (RRS). To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .