Juicy J | Image: UrbanIslandz.com American rapper Juicy J has apologized to his fans for his role in promoting drug use. The 44 years old rapper tweeted on Friday: “If I inspired anybody to do drugs, I apologize,” he tweeted.  In recent times, a number of high profile celebrities deaths have been linked to drug abuse. The most recent was Juice WRLD, who died earlier this month at the age of 21 after allegedly ingesting several Percocet pills at a Chicago airport. Mac Miller in 2018 and Lil Peep in 2017 Juicy J hasn’t been shy about his drug use, which he has addressed in interviews and music. In Rae Sremmurd’s 2018 track “Powerglide,” Juicy J touches on Lil Peep’s death and admits he needs to cut back on the Xanax: “R.I.P. Lil Peep, I gotta slow down on them Xans,” he rapped. In his 2018 cut “Neighbor” with Travis Scott, the Memphis rapper warns listeners about the dangers of the anxiety medication: “I go live like Kodak/N***as keep dyin’, f*ck Xanax.” The rapper whose birth name is Jordan Michael Houston opened up about his recreational drug use in a 2014 interview with City Pages, insisting he was not in any danger of dying. “I do not do drugs constantly and I’m not at the strip club every day, no,” he explained. “… I smoke weed, you know what I’m saying, but I do things responsibly. I’m not gonna overdose on any drug. I’m not a crazy person like that. I’m responsible for whatever I do. I enjoy living, you know what I’m saying? And you have to be smart about everything you do. You can’t be stupid. You drink too much water you could kill yourself. You could OD on water. It’s true. You never overdo yourself on anything. You gotta be responsible if you like living on this earth.” In an interview with TMZ, rapper Vic Mensa blamed Juice WRLD’s death on the glorification of drugs by rappers. “We need to recognize that the sh*t we talk about influences children. So when we are steady pushing a message of lean and Percocets and Xans, we are polluting the minds of the youth. “We have a responsibility to give it to them in a real way. Not to say that you can’t talk about your real life and the things that are happening but I think that we need to start holding each other and ourselves accountable for our glorification of the drug culture, 100 percent.”