It is no longer news that rap sensation, Cardi B is currently in Nigeria as she is billed to perform in Lagos later today before heading for another performance in Ghana tomorrow, December 8th. The Grammy award-winning female rapper flew into the country for the “Livespot X Fesitval with Cardi B” and since her arrival, she has got people talking about her. The outspoken media sensation upon her arrival in the country made a video in which she likened Nigeria to the Dominican Republic. She said: Cardi B said, “Mehn we are in Nigeria yeah, no lies, this looks like the Dominican Republic, this looks like DR straight up.” In another video she shared on her Insta stories, she revealed that she would like to visit the real Nigerian. Now in another move to show that she is here to experience Nigeria to the fullest, the mother of one has shared a video of a distraught fan. In the video shared to her Instastories, the female fan is seen crying as she names Cardi B her best artiste whom she is distressed at the thought of losing the opportunity to meet and see her perform. According to the fan, her parents won’t let her attend the concert. Sharing the video, Cardi B has shown her generosity by offering the fan five free tickets to the show and also asked her to bring her parents along. Cardi also promised to keep the fan safe and treat her the same way she treats her own cousins by ensuring that she is safe and returns home without any harm coming to her. Watch the video of the crying female fan below: Born Belcalis Marlenis Almánzar but known professionally as Cardi B, she is an American rapper, songwriter, actress, and television personality. Born in Manhattan and raised in The Bronx, New York City, she became an internet celebrity after several of her posts and videos became viral on Vine and Instagram. She hit major stardom when her song, “Bodak Yellow” peaked at number one on the Billboard Hot 100 Charts. She has since gone on to score two other number ones and earned herself a Grammy award.