Federal University of Technology Akure (FUTA) has expressed its readiness to impact positively on the nation in all ramifications, assuring that science and technology would be explored to make live more comfortable for the people. He affirmed the high level of academic discipline in the institution, especially among the academic staff, saying there are no fake professors in FUTA to dispel the fear over 100 fake professors detected in Nigerian universities by NUC. Deputy Vice Chancellor, Development, Prof. Philip Oguntade, disclosed this yesterday at the 31st pre-convocation press conference for the 2018/2019 academic session that will hold on Friday and Saturday December 20 and 21, 2019. Oguntade, who is also the Chairman of the 31st Convocation Planning Committee, noted that the institution is poised to proffer solutions to all the scientific and technical problems affecting mankind. Leveraging on the university motto “Technology for self-reliance,” he said the lecturers and students are making huge impact by inventing a hyacinth harvester, hellosat drone, fuelless generator among others. He added that there would be a convocation lecture titled, “Technopreneurship and National Development,” by Prof. John Adeoti from Department of Economic and Policy Research, NISER, Ibadan. According to him, there are 153 First Class, 1514 Second Class Upper, 1212 Second Class Lower, 216 Third Class and 15 Pass students among the 3110 graduating students. There are 1,359 Postgraduates and 71 Diploma students. He disclosed that a honorary degree would be conferred on Ananou Gabin Kouevi, the Project Director for the African Climate Competence Centres, Management Agency of the Department of Environment, Culture and Sustainability, Federal Republic of Germany. He also announced Lawal Saheed Adesile, a graduate of the Department of Physiology, School of Health and Health Technology, which is presenting its first set of graduates, as the best graduating student with CGPA of 4.92. He added that myriads of FUTA students and lecturers are benefiting from international linkages and opportunities, also winning several academic laurels and grants.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .