 Ndokwa United Ladies (NUL)  It pointed out that the place of women in poverty alleviation should be addressed if the people desire to take their families out of the worrisome situation to enable them contribute to the state’s economic growth. NUL President, Mrs. Kate Dibieagu, who singled out the Special Assistant to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa on Project Monitoring, Azika Azaka and Dame Lina Osuya for their support, stated that the group has continued to train its members on different skills, foster marital and communal unity, empowering those in business and promoting the cultural values among young ladies. Dibieagu told The Guardian that the group, with no fewer than 2, 000 members spread across the local government area, have succeeded in empowering 20 members in apprenticeship and skills acquisition in hair dressing, catering, beads making and provision of start-up funds for some members. She said the support group, through its cohesion in community development and united initiatives, also teach women the importance of fidelity and respect for their husbands. “We are looking forward to creating more entrepreneurs as soon as we raise more funds, which has remained our main challenge. Our appeal goes to the political class, businessmen and other philanthropists to enable us to alleviate poverty in our society by making our members self-reliant, especially, for those undergoing apprenticeship, who need sewing machines, generators, and hair dryers, among others. “Our focal point and interest have always in promoting the cultural values of our young ladies, fostering marital unity in various homes and empowerment with business start-ups, human capital development and political participation. “We are also involved in communal unity and skills acquisition, as we are bent on bringing out the best that our ladies could be in life, thereby adding value to the society,” she said. Dibieagu also noted that the group’s journey for women emancipation that started since 2012 has not been easy, saying, “When this group emerged, nobody gave us the benefit of the doubt and we took everyone by surprise as we rattled the grassroots politics of our locality and we are determined to place our foothold on the sands of time.” Speaking, Chief Augustine Enemuwe, wants politicians from the oil-rich zone to liaise with the relevant authorities to attract needed infrastructures and work assiduously towards empowering the teeming youths to enable them to leave the wayward street lives and contribute to the state development. On his part, a member of the state Advisory and Peace Building Committee, Rear Admiral Onah (rtd.) said, “Efforts are on to fix the roads on demand, while I plead with concerned persons to encourage these young ladies to enable them to achieve their mission for a better Ndokwa nation in particular and Delta State in general.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .