Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council (OYC) has said that Nigeria will rank among the world’s super powers if an Igbo man becomes the president in 2023. In a statement in Abakaliki yesterday, the national president of OYC, Okechukwu Isiguzoro, noted that Nigeria would be better with an Igbo man as president, citing the Igbo’s entrepreneurial spirit, vigour, and resilience. The statement read in part, “Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide assures Nigerians of new dawn if 2023 ushers in a Nigerian president of Igbo stock. The ingenuity and entrepreneurial spirit, indomitable vigour and never-say-die spirit of the Igbo will leapfrog Nigeria into the league of super power nations. “Irrespective of the challenges, the Igbo are everywhere showing their acceptance of being in Nigeria and making it prosperous through unity in diversity. “We have men of a proven track record of achievements and qualifications with tested integrity among the current South East governors and former governors on equal pedigree with the Great Zik of Africa, who sees Nigeria as his immediate constituency.” The Igbo youths frowned on the alleged discovery of abandoned Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) projects and huge scam in Abia State. “Over 800 projects were not completed and indigenous contractors absconded with the funds meant for the projects. We laud President Muhammadu Buhari’s courage to order forensic auditing of the accounts of NDDC. “The weighty allegations and monumental fraud committed in Abia through NDDC unexecuted, uncompleted and abandoned projects and over N118 billion was siphoned by Abia indigenous contractors between 2015 and 2019. “If there was such a huge fraud in Abia, there should be other weighty fraudulent activities in Akwa Ibom, Bayelsa, Cross River, Delta, Edo, Imo, Ondo, Rivers states.” The grouped urged the presidency to immediately set up a forensic investigative team led by the chairman of Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu, to scrutinise all NDDC projects awarded from 2015 to 2019 in all the Niger Delta states. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .