Director, Vehicle Inspection Service (VIS), Akin-George Fashola (right); Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu; Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Mrs. Folashade Jaji; and Commissioner for Transportation, Dr. Frederic Oladeinde, during the commissioning of VIS Operational Headquarters in Ojodu Berger, Lagos…yesterday. Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has asked Vehicle Inspection Officers (VIO) and Lagos State Traffic Management Agency (LASTMA) officers to be civil in their engagement with motorists, especially during enforcement. Speaking yesterday at the commissioning of the Lagos Vehicle Inspection Service headquarters, Sanwo-Olu said the state government was averse to molestation of individuals during enforcement of traffic and transport laws. According to the governor, the administration expects the officers to be civilised because that is what was promised the residents. To ensure that officers do not molest any Lagosian, the governor said officers would be equipped with handheld devices to capture vehicles that contravene the law, so that they have less physical interaction with offenders. He also frowned on officers running after motorists who contravene the law. Sanwo-Olu promised that the state government would continue to build the capacity of its workforce and motivate them, while pleading with the officers to maintain the facilities and put them to good use. The Commissioner for Transport, Dr. Frederic Oladeinde, stated that the provision of the gadgets was in line with the Vehicle Inspection Service vision, to serve the people of Lagos by delivering efficient and automated service that would ensure a safer transport system of global standard. His words, “This administration, in ensuring safety of lives and property, has introduced the Lagos Computerised Vehicle Inspection Services (LACVIS) to ensure proper vehicular documentation and Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) for data analysis of traffic law offences.” “The use of ANPR in enforcing vehicle documentation has reduced the heavy presence of Vehicle Inspection Service officers on the road, thereby eliminating the problem of traffic congestion caused by the presence of the officers on the roads during their routine checks.” Oladeinde assured the governor of effective use and adequate maintenance of the facility, pledging commitment and dedication in line with the vision of achieving a sustainable transport system that would be the pride of every Nigerian. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .