The Executive Chairman, Lagos Internal Revenue Service (LIRS), Ayodele Subair has implored companies to register all employees on the Pay As You Earn (P.A.Y.E) before the end of 2020 to ensure fulfilment of their civic responsibilities. Subair who spoke at the LIRS stakeholders meeting on electronic tax, yesterday in Lagos, said: “We implore all companies registered under the P.A.Y.E Scheme to register all their staff before the new year runs out.” This, according to him, will be necessary on the 2020 annual return cycle, as staff at the various locations and the designated call centres will be available to attend to all complaints and enquiries arising from employees’ experiences. He said electronic tax (eTax) platform is a digital tax administration solution leveraging on over 19 years of experience working with the largest State tax authorities across Sub-Saharan Africa. “eTax leverages an open standards platform and enables enterprise-wide data and business rules management, greater transparency and increased taxpayer self-services, with a highly flexible technology architecture designed to accommodate change and integrate easily with legacy systems. “We recognize that a comprehensive framework that promotes increased revenue generation, accountability and integrity is one of the essential elements of effective and efficient tax administration. Consequently, eTax represents a fundamentally different approach to tax administration,” he added. Managing Director, Alpha-Beta Consulting, Otunba Akin Doherty, said Lagos State is the first state to develop e-tax in Nigeria, stating that the initiative will enhance taxpayers’ engagement and promote transparency in filling returns. Speaking on the benefits of the eTax, Doherty said it will improve internally generated revenue, automate business process by increasing data capture from revenue forms and allow fewer documents requiring manual intervention through its digitised enumeration, filing, assessment, audit and payment processes. This he said will be achieved through its efficient document management, collaboration, permissions, and document routing and approval workflows all in real time across multiple tax offices. He revealed that eTax allows provision of advanced analytics tools to enable executives; managers and LIRS staffs make informed decision in real time and in visually appealing manner. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .