 New  AHCN President, Dr. Victor Onukwugha  At a keenly contested election held during the 45th AGM/100th Council Meeting combined with the two-day training workshop of the Association held in Uyo, Dr. Victor  Onukwugha who is the Managing Director of Bauhaus International Limited emerged as the President of the Association defeating the Managing Director of Ogun State Properties and Investment Ltd Abeokuta, Mrs. Ibiyemi Adesoye Dr. Victor Onukwugha who prior to the election was the first Vice President of the Association emerged the first elected private sector member of the Association to become the President of the AHCN. The Managing Director of the Lagos State Development and Property Corporation, Ayodele Har-Yusuph emerged as the first Vice President while William Idakwoji of Federal Housing Authority was elected as the second Vice President with the Managing Director of Centre Base Consult Limited, Mr. Sesan Obe voted as the scribe of the Association. Other elected officers of the Association include Arc. Macaulay Udoka the Managing Director of APICO as Financial Secretary, Mr Sadeeq Babaginda of Jigawa State Housing Authority as the Auditor, Mr. Olusola Martins of LSDPC as the Treasurer and Mr. Ahmed Abdullahi, the General Manager of Niger State Housing Corporation as the Chairman of the Technical Committee. Adamu Tanimu of FHA became the Public Affairs Officer while Mr. Daniel Makava of NBRRI elected as the Secretary of the Technical Committee. The former President of the Association, Mohammed Baba Adamu and Paul Yeigba of Bayelda State Housing development and Housing Authority were elected as ex-officio members. The training workshop which was put in place to acquaint members of the Association with requisite leadership skills and winning attitude in emerging real estate market and to stimulate them to speedily embrace strategies require for driving change for transformation amidst global economic disruption that will enhance corporate effectiveness and profitability in emerging economy. The Association which was established in 1964 was in the fore front of mass housing in Nigeria with development of various housing estates in major state capitals across the federation until recently when most housing corporations saddled with various constraints that rendered them inactive is poised to rekindle the old trade of mass housing with a new focus of attacking housing shortage with new commitment. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .