 The demolition at Marwa Waterside, Lekki  The Lagos State Environmental and Special Offences (Enforcement) Unit has demolished over 2,500 illegal structures at Marwa Waterside, Lekki. Chairman of the unit, CSP Olayinka Egbeyemi, disclosed this in a statement by the agency’s head, Public Affairs Unit, Adebayo Taofik, yesterday.Egbeyemi said the exercise was in preparation for the construction of a coastal road that would serve as an alternative route to the Lekki-Epe Expressway. He added that the demolition would also enhance free flow of traffic on that corridor. “Illegal business operators were served a seven-day ‘Removal Notice’ by the government to remove their property and vacate the entire area, which expired on Thursday, December 19. An additional eight-day grace was given to the illegal business owners to vacate the area after the expiration of the first removal order. “It was an eyesore as these illegal artisans, food vendors and others littered the entire area with refuse and waste materials. None of these illegal business operators have any permit from the state government as miscreants freely smoke and sell Marijuana as well as engage in prostitution around residential premises,” he said. “We will continue on the cleanup as well as clampdown on all criminal elements disturbing law-abiding residents within Marwa waterside and the entire Lekki axis,” he added. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has reassured Lagosians of his administration’s commitment to rid the state of traffic. Sanwo-Olu gave the assurance on Saturday evening while inspecting the removal of the second Lekki roundabout as part of junction improvements for free flow of vehicular movements along the Lekki corridor. In a statement yesterday, the state government said it has embarked on the removal of some roundabouts identified as the major causes of traffic gridlock being experienced by motorists. Four roundabouts including Ikotun, Second roundabout on the Lekki-Epe Expressway, Allen Avenue roundabout and Maryland will be removed to pave way for road expansion and free flow of traffic. The government, through the Ministry of transportation says the removal of some roundabouts and street furniture such as giant billboards will give room for road expansion and strategically ease off traffic congestion in some parts of the metropolis. Sanwo-Olu, while at the project site, encouraged the contractors handling the projects to keep up with the current pace of work so as to ensure its completion in record time. Meanwhile, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Administration ministerial task team on free flow of traffic has directed Abuja Market Management Limited (AMML) to immediately address the poor traffic situation in and around Wuse market without further delay. The marching order was contained in letter dated December 10, and addressed to the Managing Director. In the letter signed by the chairman, Ikharo Attah, and obtained by The Guardian yesterday in Abuja, some parts read: “We have noted with dismay the continuous traffic gridlock around the Wuse market as vehicles enter the market. After studying the situation for over two months, we have come to a conclusion that the problem lies within the market itself. ‘’A situation where vehicles are pouring into the market in geometric proportions and exiting in arithmetic proportions shows that something is significantly not adding up. Every market or shopping centre where vehicular movement does not show a balance in entry and exit always experience chaotic gridlock in roads around them and this is the real situation here. “The Wuse market logjam is not only causing lost of man-hours for workers in the territory but also inflicting pains on market operators and customers going in and out of the main market situated in the heart of the city. You must therefore take immediate, urgent and bold steps to address the problem making it difficult to traverse roads around the market.”  Attah explained that the FCT administration having addressed the traffic problems at Nyanya, Dutse Alhaji, and Kubwa Expressway, would not ignore the disturbing traffic around Wuse market. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .