Grammy nominated singer, Lizzo is being praised by fans for her confidence and body positivity after she shared naked pictures of herself. The ‘Truth Hurts’ singer took to her Instagram page to share the photos that saw her posing naked on a velvet couch. Making a reference to the ‘Titanic’ in her caption, she wrote: “Paint me like ya French b—-“ The photos has since generated praise from her fans who expressed their support and called her the “ultimate goddess.” The ‘Juice’ singer is being applauded for “normalising” plus-size bodies and taking steps to change societal norms regarding bigger women and nudity.   Omw…. A post shared by  Lizzo (@lizzobeeating) on Dec 1, 2019 at 1:15pm PST  After the singer shared the pictures – which showed her posing naked on a velvet couch, with a caption that referenced “Titanic” (“Paint me like ya French b—-“) – fans applauded the plus-size singer for showing off her body.   Paint me like ya French bitch A post shared by  Lizzo (@lizzobeeating) on Dec 1, 2019 at 1:14pm PST  One fan wrote: “I just took a DNA test – I’m dead,” Another smitten fan wrote: “Venus, Lady Godiva,” and a “goddess.” A follower couldn’t help but being impressed as the user wrote: “Thank you for being unflinchingly you at all times. Gives me hope that I can be as confident as you one day. You are the ultimate goddess!” Inspired by Lizzo’s boldness, a fan opened up about her own struggle with her body writing: “As a plus-sized woman myself, I just wanna say thank you.” Lizzo led this year’s Grammy nominations with eight nods ahead of the awards set to hold in 2020.  The 31-year-old led a field packed with newcomers, including bold pop iconoclast Billie Eilish and overnight sensation Lil Nas X, for music’s biggest honours. The magnetic 31-year-old Lizzo debuted in 2013 but truly burst into the public eye this year with her third studio album “Cuz I Love You,” which scored a nomination for the prestigious Album of the Year category for the Grammy awards, which will take place on January 26.