It is obvious that we are in the days of famine. We can observe that opportunities are becoming narrowed down, unemployment is on the increase, a rise and fall in shares and stocks, and collapse of national economies. The failure of the global economy is a pointer that a great number of world population is impoverished. Nigeria is not left out of the crisis. She is a giant shareholder. The most grievous famine is not of the bread, but of hearing the words of the Lord. The nation that is blessed with food, but lacks the correct word of the Lord is doomed. I pray the Lord to end this season of famine before calamity strikes. Days of Famine Indicators
While the famine of bread and water is obvious to the ordinary eye, it might be difficult to discern the famine of the word of God. During a season of severe famine in Israel, (2Kings6: 26ff) women were cooking their children for meal. It is saddening that we are seeing the replica of the episode around the world today. All manner of evil is being perpetrated for human survival. In the days of famine of hearing the words of the Lord, people will stagger around; groping everywhere – sea to sea, North to East, South to West, to and fro – searching for the word of God. The preaching of the real gospel will be scarce; they won’t find it easily. This is happening in recent times, people move round churches and church denominations; moving down the valleys and up to the mountains, running from pillar to pole to hear the words of the Lord. The Word of the Lord for Year 2020
It’s another season to project into the brand new year. People around the world desire to know what is the mind of God for the New Year. Most will be disappointed again because they won’t find the real thing. Despite several ‘thus says the Lord’ in the media and religious houses; the Lord might not be speaking through many, hence, the famine. End the Famine Now!
The time is here to see the end of famine! You will not experience famine in the coming year. Nigeria will be free from economic crisis. We can have a glorious 2020. We should all desire the revival of the word of God in our churches. Let the gospel ministers declare the counsel of God and not their wishes. Let us all pursue the word of God that will ensure national transformation and bring end to global poverty. Revd. Abimbola A. Ogundare
Pastor, Peaceway Baptist Church, Ikotun
12/14 Audu Street, Governor Road, Ikotun, Lagos State
+234-907-871-2107; peacewaybc@gmail.com To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .