Bisola Aiyeola and Tobi Bakre If there is one thing we all love about the hit reality TV show, Big Brother Naija, it is the drama that surely comes with the show. The best part of it is that the drama extends beyond the house as we get to see more of it well after the show is over. There seems to be a pot of that drama cooking at the moment after two former Big Brother Naija housemates, Bisola Aiyeola and Tobi Bakre shared cryptic messages on their different social media handles. Their tweets have since sparked a debate as to whether they are at loggerheads or it is all just another PR stunt. The drama ensued when Bisola who is from season 2 of Big Brother Naija made a post about an actor’s bad breath. She wrote: “Don’t mean this in a bad way, but bad breath should be listed as a safety hazard. Not too long ago I got to hang out with a nice, hot chiseled actor. But mehn, his breath was almost taking out my lashes. If you were on a date with someone that had bad breath would you tell them?” In a follow-up tweet, she continued: “Really wish somebody would tell this guy, he needs to take care of his bad breath as a matter of urgency. What shall it profit a fine boy actor, who looks good, but his bad breath can make on collapse. SOS.” Seemingly reacting to Bisola’s post, Tobi Bakre took to his own Twitter page and wrote: “What will Adele not see on the other side. Madame is forming woke, subbing on Twitter. Not one, not two other actors have complained about your unecessary yelling on set. Imagine person mouth wey dey gbazungengen shouting in your face. The suffer we actors suffer sha. People in glass houses throwing bricks Not even stones. This life.” Although they didn’t directly reference each other in their posts, fans were quick to point out the connection between Bisola and Tobi’s post considering the two reality TV stars now act in Nollywood. Tobi is known to be a ladies man and a ‘chiselled actor’ while Bisola on her part has been under fire in times past for being “too loud” in personality. As fans try to figure out if they are at war or not, some others have labelled their actions as a publicity stunt for a forthcoming film they both took part in. It waits to be seen how this drama ends although it is noteworthy that since these tweets, Tobi has posted a photo which Bisola commented on with affectionate emojis.