 Timothy Olawale  They are recognised as one of the engines of the post-industrial growth process since they are given credit for developing across generations’ entrepreneurial talent, a sense of loyalty to business success, long-term strategic commitment, and corporate independence.
  
Family business, being one of the oldest forms of business organisations globally, is defined as a business in which two or more members of a family are involved, and the majority of ownership and control lies within the family.
   
However, some family businesses are large multinational corporations that operate in many countries such as Ford Motors, Nestle, Cadbury, and Mercedes Benz and a host of others, while indigenous family businesses that still exist that have passed through second generation also abound in Nigeria.  He said many of the businesses thrive during the lifetime of their founders, and disappear either immediately after their deaths or soon after.
 
Kolawole, who adduced many reasons for this problem said: “To my mind, the major problem is that these family businesses fail to evolve. There are different stages in the life of any organisation. Readiness to evolve as the company grows is key to survival.
 
“By evolution, I mean evolution in models, processes and general administration, sticking to the way they are used to doing business could lead to failure. For example, as a business grows, its requirements as to administrative expertise will change. When owners see it as “family business” and are not willing to let “outsiders” come in to participate in management, the business will gradually die.
 
“Another issue is the culture of fear. The fear that the trade secrets have to be kept within the family, and this cultural fear of trusting other people to participate in the business or fear of betrayal, shuts out good ideas that could ensure longevity.
 
“Related to this is the desire of many founders of family businesses in Nigeria to bequeath their businesses to their children. Even in the present age, you find owners of businesses appointing their children just finishing from school as directors.
 
“These children don’t grow through the ranks. It is erroneously believed that if you just send them to the best Business or Management Schools in the world, they can just go straight to the top and manage those companies.”
 
Kolawole said where there is no succession planning, disagreement amongst the children after the founder’s death can ground the company.
 
“That is still happening today; especially where the late founder had more than one wife. But with institution of good corporate governance practices, training and enlightenment, we can begin to see better survival rate of indigenous family businesses in Nigeria,” he said.
 
In his submission, the Director-General, Nigeria Employers Consultative Association (NECA), Timothy Olawale, said family businesses are rarely viewed as a sector, which could influence economic growth, even when they contribute to national development through creation of jobs/employment, payment of taxes, and also play an important part in business value chain in the nation.
 
X-raying the importance of family businesses to national development, Olawale recalled a “PwC Survey Report on Family Business, which revealed that family businesses globally contributed more than 60% to GDP and provides over 70% of employment.”
 
Arguably, he said the contribution of the group of businesses is reflectively evident in growth, which recorded turnover of over $1billion, and regretted that most of these businesses do not last long in Nigeria compared with the developed countries.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .