 Celebrities opened up on their thought process allowing us to see them for who they really are. This development was rather shocking for many who often viewed them as gods. Here is a rundown of the week: Prison Chronicles
Bill Cosby has said he has no issue rotting in prison, even if that’s for the rest of his life because he’s never going to show a bit of remorse for his crime. Maintaining his innocence,
the 82-year-old comedian who was found guilty of aggravated indecent assault and sentenced to 3 to 10 years said, “I have 8 years and 9 months left. When I come up for parole, they’re not going to hear me say that I have remorse. I was there. I don’t care what group of people come along and talk about this when they weren’t there.” ‘Hymengate’
Rapper T.I. is defending himself after facing incredible backlash for admitting that he accompanies his daughter to the gynecologist every year to hear from her doctor that she is still a virgin. He confirms that out of respect for his 18-year-old daughter Deyjah, he remained quiet since the incident. However, he has since come out to say that people, “kind of took it extremely literal. Because if you put any of my reputation, like who I am as a father, who I’ve been. I honestly thought people knew me better than that.” T.I Photo by Roy Rochlin/FilmMagic)  Broken chains
One of R Kelly’s live-in girlfriends Jocelyn Savage has broken her silence on her “manipulative” affair with the disgraced singer. It should be recalled that Savage parents had claimed was being controlled and manipulated by the singer. Now in an Instagram post, she has stated that she is willing to share her story with the world. Speaking on her first meeting with the singer when she was 17, she described it as “a fun experience but very mixed emotions,” adding that her impression of Kelly was he would be helping her pursue her goals to become a model and “the next Aaliyah”. All I want for Christmas is…
More money and fame! In 1994, Mariah Carey dropped the hit song, All I Want For Christmas Is You. Never did she imagine that 25 years later, the hit song will set three Guinness World Records. Here is the thing, the song broke the record for the highest-charting holiday (Christmas/New Year) song on the Billboard U.S. Hot 100 by a solo artist. The song also set the bar for most-streamed track on Spotify in 24 hours by a female artist, as well as the record for most weeks in the U.K. singles Top 10 chart for a Christmas song at 20 weeks. One more word
Embattled twitter celebrity, Gloria Osei who along with her husband Muyiwa came under fire for a series of allegations ranging from fraud to staff abuse, made a comeback to those inform the “mob” bent on “destroying” her that she does not care about their impression of her. Defending herself for ripping people off their sweat, she argued that it is capitalist behaviour. Although she acknowledges her slimming tea was not “consistent in the result it gave,” she will not exactly apologise because “I am having fun and riding this wave, keep the water coming. Dummies.”