 Photo credit: dissolve<br />  While kids are actively merrying this season, it is important for us to engage them in activities that keep them intellectually engaged, and help them learn more while being in tune with the season. Children love the lights, the smells, the songs- so you can keep it simple and do some lovely activities at home and start to make your own family Christmas traditions. Get imaginative with your child, maybe release your own inner child and have some fun doing all the Christmas chores. Try some of these helpful ideas to help you with your Christmas preparations:
. Christmas reading for kids.There are festivity themed books that portray the season’s activities, lessons and reminds children of what it stands for. Engage your children in reading these books, that way, they don’t only imbibe the culture of reading, they also learn to share in the joys that come with the season. . Make Christmas Cards together for their friends and siblings. You should also be prepared for the mess of lots of glitter and glue. Or you can choose to paint on card with your child, there are lots of colourful cards available in the shops and you can have great fun together deciding on what to paint. . Christmas baking is always great fun. You can pick up some Christmas trees, angel and light shapes (these can also be used for making Christmas decorations) and use them to cut out the biscuits. A standard cookie dough recipe will work but you may wish to add some cinnamon or nutmeg to create a delicious, festive aroma. . Decorate the Christmas Tree together; use the decorations that your child has made and also give each child their own selection of decorations and tell them that they can put them wherever they want on the tree. . Make Christmas place mats together; give your child an A4 piece of coloured card and a variety of seasonal resources including Christmas sponges for printing, scraps of Christmas wrapping paper, markers, glue and glitter. Decorate the card and allow it to dry. Laminate the cards to turn them into Christmas place mats. These can make great gifts, too, especially for grandparents. . Take a Christmas photo as a family. Everyone likes to have memories, look back and reminisce moments. Hence it is important as a family to get dressed in those red, green or white colours that depicts the Christmas mood and take pictures to further colour your moods and home this season. . It is important to bear in mind that on Christmas Eve, try to not to give your child too much sugary treats and arrange some fun and relaxing activities for the children while you prepare for the busy day ahead. And don’t forget to squeeze in some relaxation time for yourself too.
 Merry Christmas! To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .