The Kano State Police Command has deployed joint operatives to forestall likely security breaches during the Christmas and New Year celebrations. It admonished residents to remain extra-vigilant and avoid moving around the metropolis with unnecessary objects during the festive period. The police issued the warning in a statement issued by the command’s spokesman Abdullahi Haruna yesterday in which it reminded residents that the ban on political rallies and all forms of unauthorised gathering still stood, warning that whoever violated the security rules would be prosecuted. Abdullahi disclosed that patrols and raids to compliment Operation Puff-Adder would continue in order to avert any breach of peace by criminals and miscreants in the state. “Adequate number of policemen have been deployed to various places of worship, recreational centres, markets, roads, motor parks, highways and other public places to provide security of lives and property. “The command is in synergy with the Military, DSS, NSCDC, Immigration, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), KAROTA and other civil volunteers to enforce traffic laws and regulations, ensure the free flow of vehicles and general safety of lives and property during the celebrations. “Those going to places of worship are advised to avoid carrying unnecessary objects that may trigger apprehension or suspicion of any kind. “People attending recreational centres during these celebrations should be extra vigilant by taking good cognisance of people and objects around them and report any suspicious movement or items to security agencies,” the statement reads. Relatedly, the Plateau State Police Command has said it was leaving no stone unturned to ensure a hitch-free Christmas and New Year celebration. It said it has put in place adequate security arrangements and strategies to ensure a crime-free Christmas celebration in the state. Commissioner of Police (CP), Isaac Akinmoyede, who stated this while addressing journalists, said conventional policemen and specialised operational units of the command numbering 3,300 have been deployed to various strategic points within the state. He explained that the officers and men have been given strict instructions to be polite and civil, but firm in ensuring effective security and safety of travelers and other road users before, during and after the yuletide. Meanwhile, the Kwara State CP, Kayode Egbetokun, has cautioned against the use of low explosives (fireworks) during the yuletide. A statement issued yesterday by spokesman of the Police Command, DSP Ajayi Okasanmi, quoted Egbetokun as saying that any person caught disobeying the order would be prosecuted. He assured that adequate security measures had been put in place to guarantee a hitch-free Christmas and New Year celebrations in the state. “In a bid to making the celebrations crime-free, the command has deployed 3, 000 personnel to forestall any breakdown of law and order before, during and after the yuletide period,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .