 University of Abuja  No fewer than 100 students of the University of Abuja have been expelled by the institution’s Senate for their involvement in examination malpractices. The university’s Head of Information and Relations, Habib Yakoob, who disclosed this yesterday in Abuja, said the figure comprises 72 undergraduates and 28 postgraduate students. According to him, five undergraduate students were rusticated for one academic session, three others for one semester while three had no case. “Three postgraduate students were also rusticated for one academic session,” he added. He explained that the Senate during its 174th regular meeting of November 6, 2019 considered the report and recommendations of the Central Examination Misconduct Committee and took the decisions after due diligence. The spokesman added: “Among the undergraduate students expelled, 27 were in 400 Level; 19 in 300 Level, 16 in 200 Level, two in
100 Level while five others were in their fifth, sixth, and seventh sessions. “The breakdown also shows that 47 of the expelled students were from Faculty of Science, 23 from Faculty of Management Sciences, 20 from Faculty of Social Sciences while 10 others cut across various faculties” Yakoob clarified that the affected students had been directed to hand over any of the university properties in their possession, including identity cards, to their heads of departments and units. “They were also advised to vacate the campus immediately. “The University of Abuja wishes to reiterate that it is determined to ensure academic discipline among its staff and students and that those who violate the rules and regulations of the institution would be appropriately disciplined.” However, President Muhammadu Buhari has charged tertiary institutions on employable products. Speaking during the 31st convocation of the Federal University of Technology, Akure (FUTA) at the weekend in Ondo State, the president regretted the quality of graduates being churned out yearly, declaring that the development portends disaster for the future and development of the country. He decried the deficiency in critical thinking, creativity, innovation, and other skills among products of higher institutions of learning. The president, who was represented by the Deputy Executive Secretary of the National Universities Commission (NUC), Dr. Suleiman Yusuf, urged universities to play more proactive roles in producing competent graduates that could also be job creators. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .