A middle-aged man was on Sunday rescued by one of his workers as he attempted to take his own life by hanging at Ogobiri, Sagbama local government area of Bayelsa State. He was said to have bought a rope from the market and headed straight to his ailing gas filling station, where he tied the rope to one of the pillars and his neck in an attempt to hang himself but for the timely intervention of one his workers. The man identified as Oze Teidei, an All Progressive Congress (APC) stalwart, was said to have been given a December 31 deadline, by one Mr. Benjamin Abrakasa, a stalwart of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), or lose his two companies. Abrakasa, a former chairman of Nembe Local Government Area was reported to have given Oze till today for the payment of N7.6 million or forfeit both his companies to him. Efforts to get Oze, speak on his ordeal was not successful as he was still receiving treatment at an undisclosed hospital in Yenagoa, the Bayelsa State capital. In his reaction, the former Nembe council boss, told newsmen that Teidei had no right to have attempted suicide, describing it as total madness. “Ask him to show you the agreement and you will see that it has expired two years ago. Someone like him did similar thing in the past, collected money with a petrol station along AIT Elebele road as a collateral and when he couldn’t pay, he left the patrol station.” It will be recalled that on December 17, a popular prophet based in Warri, Delta State, Jeremiah Omoto Fufeyin, had pledged to help the victim to pay his debts which was covered live on television, but as at the time of filling this report, the said amount was yet to be released by the church. A junior pastor in charge of finance at the Mercy Land Deliverance Ministry Church, Pastor Promise (second name withheld), when contacted on telephone confirmed that though the money has been donated, it has not been released to him. Meanwhile, one Achor Clinton Chris has reportedly committed suicide inside his apartment in Rumuekini community of Obio-Akpor Local Government Area of Rivers State. The body of Chris, who hailed from Rumuokwuta community, was found beside a bottle of a brand of Dichlorvos, popularly called Sniper, inside his apartment in Rumuekini where he resides. Chris’s body was recovered by neighbours who alerted his family members and the Choba Police Division after discovering that the victim who went to bed didn’t come out the next morning. Those who evacuated the body said he left no note or traces of his action. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .