Woman getting a medical checkup | Medical News Today Everyday life isn’t kind to the neck. Many of us have experienced neck pain for one reason or the other. It could be from prolonged staring into computers or staring down at our smartphones most of the day. The human head which weighs about ten to twenty pounds is supported by a pile of bones known as vertebrae and thirty-two complex muscles. Any variations, aggravation, or injury can bring about neck pain. Neck pains are usually not serious although in a few cases, medical attention may be required. Keep reading for effective ways to treat neck pain. Ice packs This is one of the simplest home remedies used in treating neck pain. The coldness of the ice pack reduces irritation and eases the pain. To use an ice pack to treat neck pain, simply follow the steps below: Hydrotherapy This is another effective solution to neck pain. Bath with warm water for three to four minutes with focus on the affected neck region then switch to cold water and target the neck area for one minute. What the hot water does is to increase blood circulation while the cold water eases inflammation. Try acupuncture Acupuncture involves inserting needles into specific pressure points on your body. While more scientific research is needed to identify proven benefits, acupuncture has been practised for thousands of years in Eastern medicine. Visit only a certified practitioner with sterile needles. Neck exercises Exercise can help strengthen your muscles to prevent injuries. Exercise can also help you to improve your posture to relieve and prevent neck stiffness. There is a wide range of neck exercises you can use to get rid of neck pain. You can use the simple one of slowly rotating your neck clockwise as well as anti-clockwise in a circular motion. It helps in stretching out the muscles and gradually loosens it up and heals. You can also try moving your neck slowly side to side as well as back and forth. Avoid many pillows Don’t use too many pillows. Sleeping with several pillows under your head can stifle your neck’s range of motion. Sleep problems increase the risk for several different conditions, including musculoskeletal pain. Limit physical activity If you noticed that your neck pain started after performing physical activity, you should limit that activity until the stiffness resolves. However, you should limit heavy lifting and activities that may aggravate your neck muscles any time you have neck pain. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.