 Lagos and Ondo states battling for points during the volleyball event of the 2012 National Sports Festival. Nigerian Customs and Civil Defence won the men and women’s titles respectively at the just-concluded 2019 National Volleyball Premier League. 				   PHOTO: FEMI ADEBESIN-KUTI.  Customs Volleyball team retained their title, having won their four previous games with 30 points. NSCDC narrowly finished second after their performance against Nigeria Customs Service with 24 points, while Kano Pillars placed third position with 23 points after beating Nigeria Police Force, who finished fourth place with 22 points. Nigeria Immigration Service came fifth with 19 points, while UCEM of Enugu placed sixth with two points. In the female category, NSCDC defeated the hard fighting Customs ladies 3-0 (25-19, 25-23, 25-18) to dethrone them as champions.The NSCDC ladies won with 32 points followed by Customs (28 points), Army (20 points), Immigration (10 points), Kada Emeralds (nine points) and Benue Queens (three points). Captain of the NCS team, Sunny Akapson, who was delighted that his team won the Volleyball Premier League, said they will put up an impressive performance when they play at the continental club championship next year. “We promised to win the title at the end of the tournament and we have done that all thanks to the Nigeria Customs Service for their support.“We are now going to shift our attention to the continental club championship coming up next year and we promise to do the nation proud,” he said. The Premier League, which started on November 21, ended on Saturday at the indoor sports hall, package B of the Moshood Abiola Stadium in Abuja. The male teams that participated in the league were NCS, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Police, Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), Kano Pillars, Plateau Rocks, UCEM and Famous spiders.The female teams include NCS, NSCDC, NIS, COAS-Army, Benue Queens, Delta Force and Kada Emeralds.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .