Airport security (AVSEC) operatives on Friday arrested a stowaway after he tried to gain access into the aircraft through the wheel-well. The airline, Air Peace, said the stowaway, in his twenties, thought the plane was heading overseas. “This morning, at exactly 9:10 at the MMA1 Lagos, an Owerri – bound Air Peace aircraft was taxing towards the threshold for take-off, when a man, in his twenties, emerged from the bush along the runway and tried to gain access into the aircraft through the wheel-well,” Air Peace said in a statement. The AVSEC personnel on static guard duties at the area rushed to stop his further movement to a taxiing aircraft (CS-TQU) and a struggle ensued. All efforts to stop the intruder by the unarmed AVSEC personnel failed as the intruder continued to resist arrest. While the struggle was ongoing, the AVSEC personnel called for reinforcement and alerted the pilot of CS-TQU of the intrusion, and to delay the aircraft to allow for a successful apprehension of the intruder. The aircraft was advised to return to base for necessary safety and security inspections in line with standard procedure. Consequently, the aircraft departed Lagos at 10:16hrs with 171 passengers and six crew members. The Managing Director of FAAN, Rabiu Hamisu with directors of Aviation Security Services, Grp. Capt USA Sadiq (rtd) and Airport Operations, Capt Mukhtar Muye, the Regional General Manager (SW), Victoria Shina-Aba and the Airport Chief of Security (MMA), Mr S.M Mamman inspected the site of the incident. The Captain of the aircraft CS-TQU, who spoke with FAAN Management team, commended the action of the AVSEC team. He said the apprehension was a timely and professional action that protected the flight because he was not aware of any intrusion until he was alerted. Speaking on the incident, Air Peace spokesman, Stanley Olisa said there was another private jet behind the aircraft while the man attempted to access the aircraft.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .