To propel an accelerate growth and development in the critical infrastructural sector of the country, the government must ensure the engagement of trained and certified specialized engineers that will only deliver professional proficiency, the Nigerian Society of Engineers has advocated. President of the society, Engr. Adekunle O. Mokuolu made the disclosure on Monday at the opening of the 4th College of Fellows of Nigerian Society of Engineers’ roundtable symposium holding in Kano. Engr. Mokuolu who expressed the determination of NSE of asserting their prowess in the body of knowledge and intellectual posited that Nigerian Engineers are major stakeholders in the development process who should be given their rightful places in governance. He explained that the roundtable symposium of the College of fellows of the society, which is part of the NSE conference and annual general meeting, targeted to explore the role of the private sector in waste management in Nigeria. “The conference will enable the Engineers to formulate the procedure and process that will ensure the development of our country based on scientific and technology,” Mokuolu said. “We want to commence the domestication of development and with that we need to affirm that we are also major stakeholders in building the project Nigeria. As such we don’t want to see people who are not professionals to take our rightful place in government.” The NSE president disclosed a strategic collaboration with the Federal government on the construction of affordable housing schemes to check the growing housing deficit in the country. He revealed that NSE had presented its developmental roadmap to Muhammadu Buhari, an attempt to facilitate the Federal government 100,000 jobs for Nigerians. “President Buhari has mustered the vision to propose the policy of bringing 100,000 Nigerians out of poverty in the next 10 years and that cannot be actualized by foreigners, it’s as to be done by Nigerians. We are here to formulate the process that will complement the president’s vision. We would generate the platform for engagement for the development,” Mukoulu said. “Actualizing the agenda, we are going to develop strategic collaboration with the government. So we are presenting our developmental roadmap to the government on how to engender developmental programs in the country. We have started a process of providing affordable housing for Nigerians with electricity, water and all the conveniences. That initiative will provides skill job for teeming youths and local materials will be used as well. The mortgage infrastructure will be made attractive such that people with minimum wage will be able to afford”. Engr. Mokuolu emphasized.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .