Tiwa Savage | Twitter It was an array of music stars at Flytime Music Festival day 4 tagged “Everything Savage” headlined by one of Africa’s leading musicians, Tiwa Savage. Africa’s number one bad girl as the sultry diva is fondly called by her fans made history as the first female to headline the show in its 15-year history and Savage surely delivered. The “One” hitmaker enlisted the support of other notable artists to make the night a memorable one for concertgoers. Music acts like Dr Sid, 2Baba, Reekado Banks, Sean Tizzle, 9ice, Simi among a host of others fired up the crowd with stellar performances. Standing out notably among the invited guest artistes was the presence of the Woman of Steel, Yemi Alade. Rumoured to be Savage’s biggest music rival to the title of Africa’s number one music queen, there have been several reports that the two stars don’t see eye to eye. With the media and fans ever ready to latch on to music rivalry, the two female stars have been pitched against one another severally but at the Everything Savage concert, all bad blood was let go of. Yemi Alade | Instagram Before bringing Alade out on stage, Savage revealed that she aims to go into 2020 on a clean state and as such felt it was necessary to lay to rest any perceived lingering enmity. Referring to Alade as her sister and a queen, she acknowledged that there is nothing but love between them and she hopes the night proves this to everyone. With her hit song, “Oh My Gosh” blasting from the speakers, Alade strutted onto the stage to the delight of the crowd as the hall went into screams of adulation. The two women hugged in what can be considered an iconic moment with Savage cheering Alade on as the latter blessed the crowd. Moved by emotions, Alade went on to an acapella performance of her song, “Na Gode” to appreciate all that God has done for everyone in 2019. Finishing her set, Alade thanked Savage for inviting her to the show to which Savage also expressed gratitude that her invitation was honoured. In a bid to keep Alade a little longer on stage, her smash hit song, “Johnny” came on and the Mama Africa crooner alongside Savage performed the song to the delight of the crowd. As they showed off their twerking moves and vocals, concertgoers could not help but admit that love always wins and even this writer is honoured to have been a part of the historic moment! Watch a clip from the moment below: The video of Tiwa Savage bringing out Yemi Alade at her concert already made my day.  Love wins again Love 20 – Hate 0 pic.twitter.com/b7kluONPDO — K O B Z (@Misterkobz) December 24, 2019 