 IGP Adamu. Photo; TWITTER/POLICENG  A statement by PSC’s Head, Press and Public Relations, Ikechukwu Ani, said the exercise was strictly based on seniority, merit, availability of vacancies and clean record of service. “The promotions were one of the highpoints of the seventh plenary meeting of the commission which held in Abuja between Friday, December 20 and Saturday, December 21, 2019, and presided over by the commission’s chairman, Musiliu Smith, a retired Inspector General of Police,” Ani stated. He went on: “Some of the 98 new DCPs are Mohammed Shehu Dalijan, formerly ACP Liberal Studies, Police Staff College Jos; erstwhile ACP, state CID, Delta State, Dan Mamman Shawulu; Clement Robert from the National Institute for Security Studies; Amaechi Oliver Okwudili, until now ACP, Administration, Enugu State Command; Musa Auwal Mohammed, ex-ACP, C/O 9PMF Kano. “Others are Abel Abala Audu, until now the ACP, state CID, Bayelsa and Idowu Owohunwa, Principal Staff Officer to the IGP.
“CSP Dahiru Ibrahim, Principal Staff Officer 2 to the IGP, Lagos Annex; Ayobami Yemi Surajudeen of the Niger State Command; Eno-Edobor Thomas Aidenogie of the Lagos State Command; Halilu Muawiya, SPU Base, Port Harcourt and Christopher Bassey Uweh of the Kaduna Command were part of the 150 CSPs promoted to ACPs.” Ani further said: “Some of the 335 SPs promoted to CSPs include Stephen Ifeanyi Abiaziem of Rivers State Command; Mua’zu Isa of Kogi State Command; Godwin Onyebuchi Mba, the IGP Secretary; Paschal Chima Nwachukwu, O/C Legal, Enugu State Command; Bitrus Peny Gorroh, Sokoto State CFO; Fredrick Azubuike of Enugu State Command; Taiye Awodi, 32 PMF Abakaliki and Juliana Ifeanyi Odo, O/C Anti Kidnapping, Zone 9, Umuahia. “Chairman of the commission, Musiliu Smith, charged the beneficiaries to rededicate themselves to greater commitment to national development by upholding the ethics and rules of the force. “He promised that the commission will continue to ensure that deserving police officers are promoted as and when due.” Among the new CPs are Ogun State DCP (Operations), Edward Awolowo Ajogun and Head of the Financial Malpractices Investigation Unit (FMIU), Abutu Yaro. Others include Tunde Adagunduro, former DCP (Operations), Lagos State Command; Titilayo Kayode; Olatunji Akingbola; Kola Okunola Kamaldeen and Amidu Bolaji Salami, who is the Principal Staff Officer to the PSC chairman. Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police in charge of Explosive Ordinance Disposal (EOD) Department, Maikudi Shehu, has vowed that his unit commanders would not allow terrorist groups overrun their magazine stores nationwide. He therefore charged his officers to effectively man their jurisdictions and avoid security lapses during the Yuletide. Shehu, who was speaking during the fourth quarterly conference with senior officers and EOD base/unit commanders, urged them to protect all essential areas and flashpoints before, during and after the festivities. The CP said his unit was formidable and had fortified every base and magazine store, warning that any commander who fails in his duty would be sanctioned. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .