Efforts by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leadership to mediate in the political feud between Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike and his Bayelsa counterpart, Seriake Dickson, has suffered a setback. Governor Wike yesterday refused the offer of the party leadership to intervene in the conflict, worsened by the ceding of the Soku oil fields to Rivers by the Federal High Court. The Rivers chief executive yesterday declared in Port Harcourt that there was no premise for the intervention, since the Federal High Court had already determined the issue in question. He stated: “I don’t know why they are interceding. They have no power to resolve the issue of oil wells. Secondly, the matter has been determined by a court of competent jurisdiction. Anybody who is not satisfied should go on appeal.  Are they interceding on behalf of someone who betrayed the party? “They know that Governor Dickson betrayed and sold out the party. They know that during the 2019 election in Rivers State, he worked with my opponent. Throughout that period, the National Chairman himself knows that people were calling from all over the country to know the situation. Dickson never called one day.” Wike further alleged: “This was because of his alignment with the opposition. I am not going to sit down with anybody to discuss anything as it relates to Governor Dickson. I have no business with him.” He explained that the “right thing for Dickson to have done, instead of resorting to unwarranted outburst was to resign from the PDP, so that PDP leaders in Bayelsa State can rebuild the party.” Wike went on: The national leadership of the party should know that the only option left for PDP to be strong in Bayelsa is for Dickson to leave the party.” The governor stated that the party’s “intervention was no longer profitable in view of the incalculable damage done by the outgoing Bayelsa governor.” He further said: “Where was the party when Dickson sold out? Why couldn’t they come out to speak out? Governor Dickson, you have killed our party in that state. What is anyone wading in for? I am not going to be party to that and nobody will stop me. Nobody fights Rivers State and gets any benefits out of it. I have said it severally.  I am not here because of my interest. I am here because of the interest of Rivers State.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .