PHOTO: Twitter/@BashirAhmaad •Don’t blame us for your ‘failures’, IPOB tells military
President Muhammadu Buhari and his Egyptian counterpart, Abdelfattah el-Sisi, have mulled a partnership to eradicate terrorism in parts of Africa. Speaking on the sidelines of the Aswan Forum on Sustainable Peace and Development in Africa held in Egypt, the Nigerian leader said West African nations were already in close collaboration towards combating the menace by setting up a multinational task force. He acknowledged that since terrorism was a global phenomenon, more collaborative efforts were needed to rein in the challenge. President el-Sisi appreciated Buhari for his participation and contribution. He also praised his Nigerian colleague for his leadership qualities, pledging to deepen cooperation with the most populous black nation in all areas of common interest. The Egyptian leader briefed President Buhari on efforts of his government on counter-terrorism, particularly on the Sinai and the borders with Libya. He reiterated his willingness to synergise with the Nigerian government on all fronts to conquer the “evil of terrorism.” A statement by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, said el-Sisi also invited the president to the opening of the new capital and Grand International Museum coming up next October. Meanwhile, the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has urged the leadership of Nigerian Army to shun “attacking soft targets and square up to the Boko Haram insurgents.” The movement noted that the recent statement in which the military accused it of being behind the recent trending video where Boko Haram members were torturing and humiliating Nigerian army personnel was laughable. In a statement by its Director of Media and Publicity, Emma Powerful, IPOB declared: “This unguarded, shameful and thoroughly unsubstantiated accusation is very typical of an army that specialises in attacking soft spots, especially civilian populations in the south, but cringes at the sight of a well-armed opposition in the north. “It is quite pathetic how the Nigerian Army would belittle itself so shamelessly in the eyes of the world by involving IPOB in their futile attempt to deflect attention from their impotence and failed effort to fight a terrorism menace they themselves created in Nigeria. “The Nigerian Army must understand that Biafra is not Nigeria. IPOB has more important things to do than engaging in doctoring a video that is so clear for all to see.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .