 Tambuwal (second left); Speaker, Aminu Muhammad Achida( right); Clerk of the Assembly, Abdul-Razak Shehu; Deputy Speaker, Alhaji Abubakar Magaji and Deputy Governor Manir Muhammad Dan’iya during the signing of the Appropriation Bill<br />  In a statement by his Special Adviser Media and Publicity, Muhammad Bello, Tambuwal gave kudos to the Assembly members, majority of whom are members of the opposition party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) for their patriotism and unflinching commitment to the collective good of the people of the state. “The assembly, despite being controlled by the APC, which is in the majority, has rallied round the government and supported it in the interest of the people of the state,” the governor noted. Assuring that “this gesture shall not be misplaced,” the governor added that “members of SOHA must be commended for their uncommon patriotism to deliver democratic dividends to the people of Sokoto State. That is the crux of our commitment, which supersedes party affiliations.” He applauded the Assembly for its speedy consideration of the budget in three weeks, in line with the World Bank benchmark. “The ball is now in the court of the executive to ensure proper implementation of the budget. We will work closely with the parliament in doing so,” he further assured. Presenting the passed appropriation bill to the governor inside the council chamber of Government House, Sokoto,  the Speaker, Sokoto State House of Assembly, Aminu Muhammad Achida, said the Assembly was aware of the administration’s achievements, despite financial constraints. “The implementation of the 2019 budget has recorded a lot in the areas of education, health, and rural development as well as many others. We will continue to accelerate the passage of any bill that is meant to improve the lots of the people of the state,” the Speaker said. Achida commended the governor for his record achievement in the modest improvement of internally generated revenue (IGR). To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .