Discountenance with the reinstatement of the new four emirate councils, four traditional title holders and Kingmakers have instituted legal action challenging Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, the new four emirs, speaker Kano state assembly, Kano state house of assembly and Attorney General of Kano on the creation of new emirates. In an application with suit no. K/197/2019, filed by Suraj Sa’eda before Kano state high court and made available to The Guardian, the plaintiffs are seeking an interlocutory injunction restraining the respondents from executing the establishment of the new emirate councils law. Those challenging the government actions are Yusuf Nabahani (Madaki Kano), Abdullahi Sarki Ibrahim (Makama Kano), Bello Abubakar (Sarki Dawaki Mai Tuta) and Mukhtari Adnan (Sarkin Bai Kano). In their motion on notice, the plaintiffs urged the court to restrain the Governor Ganduje from assenting to the Kano state Emirates council Bill 2019, subject matter of which is pending before the court for hearing. Other parts of the Kingmakers’ prayers are “ an order of interlocutory injunction restraining the speaker and state house of assembly from carrying out or conducting any debate, deliberation, reference, voting, reading or taking any step whatsoever regarding the passing the Kano state Emirates Council Bill. 2019 subject to matter of which is before the court pending the hearing and determination of the suit. An order of injunction directing the speaker, assembly, Governor and AG to maintain status quo pending the hearing and determination of the suit. In the application, the plaintiff drew the attention of the court on the pending suit on the similar subject matter, arguing that until the court determines the matter, the defendants cannot carry out any act in respect of the new or additional emirates. The kingmakers maintained that unless the court restrains the actions of the defendants, the creation of the new emirates will amount to prejudice and irreparable damage to the plaintiff. The court has thereby fixed 17th of December, 2019 for the hearing of the application.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .