Lizzo | TIME Grammy-nominated artist, Lizzo has been named the Entertainer of the Year according to TIME Magazine. The “Truth Hurts” hitmaker who has had a good music year as her third album,  “Cuz I Love You“, earned her eight Grammy nominations. “Truth Hurts” which was originally released in 2017 also climbed to the number one spot on Billboard’s Hot 100 Chart and her red carpet moments were all part of her defining moments to help her clinch the coveted entertainer of this year. Writing about Lizzo, TIME says: “Her sound is relentlessly positive and impossibly catchy: bangers that synthesize pop, rap and R&B, with hooks so sharp it feels like they’ve been in your brain forever. Her lyrics are funny, bawdy and vulnerable: reminders to dump whatever idiot is holding you back and become your own biggest fan.” She adds: “I have to bite my tongue on certain things. When people challenge my talent, they challenge whether I deserve to be here. They challenge my blackness. I’m like, ‘Oh! I can easily just let your ass know right now in 132 characters why you’re f-cking wrong.” The “Good As Hell” singer incorporates themes of confidence and self-love into her music. Lizzo represents something new. Her sound is relentlessly positive and impossibly catchy: bangers that synthesize pop, rap and R&B, with hooks so sharp it feels like they’ve been in your brain forever. Her lyrics are funny, bawdy and vulnerable: reminders to dump whatever idiot is holding you back and become your own biggest fan. Lizzo | TIME Lizzo’s message is clear and it’s been that way since she began. “I’ve been doing positive music for a long-ass time. Then the culture changed,” she said in the Time interview. “There were a lot of things that weren’t popular but existed, like body positivity, which at first was a form of protest for fat bodies and black women and has now become a trendy, commercialized thing. Now I’ve seen it reach the mainstream,” she added. Interestingly, the same day TIME announced Lizzo as its Entertainer of the Year, Entertainment Weekly also decided to announce its Entertainers of the Year and Lizzo made the cut. We recently reported that fans praised Lizzo for encouraging body positivity after she shared some nude photos of herself on Instagram.