Rivers Governor, Nyesom Wike, has said the insistence to install a successor by any state chief executive had always been for selfish reasons. Reiterating that only God has the power to enthrone his successor in 2023, the governor described himself as the luckiest politician that was assisted by the Creator to “overcome the onslaught of federal might during the 2019 elections.” He spoke yesterday during the thanksgiving service of the representative of Rivers South-East Senatorial District, Barinada Mpigi, at Saint Cyprian’s Anglican Church, Koroma Town, Tai Local Council of the state. His words: “I will not install my successor. It is God that will determine who will succeed me. Only God has the power to install my successor. “However, I will fervently pray that my party succeeds in 2023. The insistence to plant a successor is mainly for selfish reasons.  Everyone with the right capacity should come forward to tell Rivers people why they should vote him/her.” Wike recalled that but for the “benevolent intervention of God, extraneous forces backed by the Federal Government” were hell bent on ousting him from office. He added: “How many people who have fought federal might and succeeded? God fought for us during the last elections and we were victorious.  That is why I will always support the church.  I will always continue to give thanks to God for his mercies.” The governor said he had worked closely with the celebrant since 1999, describing him as a trustworthy politician. He stated that Mpigi had examined both the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) and came to the conclusion that the “PDP offers the best hope for Nigeria.” According to Wike, despite the challenges confronting the main opposition party at the federal level, “the future of the country would be more secured under the leadership of the PDP.” In his remarks, Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege, who was represented by Senator Sandy Onoh, termed Mpigi as a “potent force for Ogoni, Rivers State and the South-South. Former Senate Leader, Ali Ndume, said the celebrant was a trustworthy politician that does not swerve in the face of pressure. He, however, lauded the governor for being a “courageous politician who works for the people no matter the pressure.” On his part, Mpigi thanked God for his mercies and consistent political victories, acknowledging Wike for his contribution to the feats. He declared that he would follow the governor’s direction in 2023. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .