All I Want For Christmas Is You Tops Billboard Hot 100 For the first time in its 25-year history, Mariah Carey’s All I Want For Christmas Is You has climbed to the top of Billboard’s Hot 100. The classic, festive jam has become a staple of the holiday season and could not have been timed better since this year also marks the 25th anniversary of her winter album Merry Christmas. Carey posted a simple and emotional tweet to convey how she was feeling. “We did it,” she wrote, followed with a crying emoji and heart emoji. Halsey Honours Juice WRLD
Ashley Nicolette Frangipane, known professionally as Halsey, has honoured her late friend Juice WRLD at her Pandora Live concert in Brooklyn. During the show, the singer paused to pay tribute to the rapper with a performance of her song Without Me. The remix, which was released in January, featured Juice as well. Before she began, she delivered an emotional speech about the remix, calling it superior to the original. The artiste then took to Instagram to share a photo and some kind words about the late rapper, saying, “Sweet boy. The fastest brain in the game. Your creativity, endless. Immortal. Rest in power. I can’t even explain the sadness.” Selena Gomez Unveils New Album
Selena Gomez’s fans are definitely going to be starting off 2020 on the right note. The Lose You To Love Me singer took to Instagram on December 12 to officially announce her upcoming album title Rare. Not only did she reveal the LP’s title, she also shared the track list and artwork. Fans can’t wait to hear how Gomez’s sound has evolved since the release of Revival, which came out over five years ago. Pharrell Williams Releases 2020 Festival Dates
Pharrell William’s Something In The Water Festival will be back in 2020, and it’s going to be bigger than ever before. Already, artistes such as Post Malone, A$AP Rocky, Gunna, Chance the Rapper and other are on the bill. The huge musical kicks off on April 24 and wraps up two days later across not one, not two but three beachfront stages in Virginia Beach.