Till his demise in Abuja on September 25, Chief Ufot Joseph Ekaette, CFR (1939-2019) achieved many firsts in his life time. He was the longest serving Principal Secretary to the Head of State, General Yakubu Gowon, GCFR (8years), a post equivalent to Chief of Staff to the President. He was the pioneer Director General of the Directorate, Food, Roads and Rural Infrastructure (DFFRI). He was the first deputy governor of Akwa Ibom state. He was the longest serving Secretary of the Government of the Federation. He was the first Minister of the Niger Delta. He was a simple man from Ikot-Edor in Onna local government area of Akwa Ibom state. For eight years I worked with him during his tenure as Secretary to the government of the federation. I was close to him in office seeing him like others, especially his devoted and loyal Secretary, Mrs. Abiodun Adekunle from Fiditi in Oyo state, married a retired Permanent Secretary, Chief Sam Olu Adekunle from Igede in Ekiti state. Among those who worked with him and directly close to him during that period were Dr. Goke Adegoroye, Mr. Tunde Kamilu Kasali, Mr. Tony Ekwerre (Chief Security Officer), Dr. M.T. Minna, Alhaji Saleh Ahidjo (Chief of Protocol), Prince Kola Adeyemi, Dr. J.N. Obiegwu, Mr. S. A. Adeyeye, Gbadebo Ojokobirikale, Kola Oluwatuyi, Alhaji Salisu Nainna, Bolaji Adebiyi, Ben Ahiante, Seyi Olowokere, Paul Ajayi, Anthony Ejele, Jalal Arabi, David Oyegun, A.E. Ogbueyi, S.I. Hambolu, Alhaji Kurawa, Mrs Titi Iroche, Chief Dosu Oyelude, Alhaji Baba Farouk, D.C. Ibe, P.E. Odili, Dr. Banbagide Aliyu, Olusegun Oloriebi Ogunkua, P.S. Egure, Chief M.O. Onoja, Dr. Adamu Aliyu, Alhaji B.U. Maitambari, Mrs. Oluremi Olowu, Dr. Wole Oluleye, Jonathan Soja, Tom John, Gbadebo Ojokobirikale, Dr. Aboki Zhawa, Dr. B.K. Kaigama, the present Senate Leader, Alhaji Yahaya Abdullahi, Samuel Bassey, Danjuma Gambo, Yinka Olanipekun, Bamiyo Osajuyigbe and many others. When my cousin, Mr. Kayode Akinmade phoned me about his demise, what flashed in my mind was the good time we had together at the eleventh floor of the Federal Secretariat, Abuja. During those eight years we operated like a family and Chief Ekaette was the head of that happy family. We will miss him. His two children, Uduak and Ubong will miss him. His partner, lover, friend, confidant, adviser and wife of over fifty years, Senator Eme Ekaette, CON, will miss him most. His close friends including Dr. Morris Ebong, Major General Edet Akpan, Oba Otudeko, Chief Bassey Ndiokho, former UAC chairman, Chief Friday Okono and others, will equally miss him. He was a good man. For forty-five years and more, he gave all he had in the service of Nigeria. According to the bio data which he himself signed before his death, Chief Ekaette Obong Ufot Joseph joined the Federal Civil Service as Administrative Officer Class IV on July 28, 1964 and was posted to the Federal Civil Service Commission with responsibilities for disciplinary matters. Between April and October 1966, he worked in the Cabinet Office and served in the Office of Economic Adviser to the Federal Government as an Assistant Secretary. He was reposted to the Federal Civil Service Commission on October 17, 1966 and served as Acting Administrative (Principal Grade) in charge of recruitment, promotions and transfers in the Civil Service (October 1966-August 1968). Within that period he was promoted Administrative Officer (Principal grade)—November 1, 1967. From August 1968 to September 1975, Chief Ufot Ekaette was posted to the State House as the Principal Private Secretary to the Head of State, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces (General Yakubu Gowon) with responsibility for internal administration of the Department. He was promoted Administrative Grade II and Administrative Grade I on April 1, 1971 and April 1, 1973 respectively. He was posted to Federal Ministry of Industries (September 8, 1975- November 13, 1975) and held the post of Deputy Permanent Secretary. He also served as Chairman, Industrial Training Fund during the period. On October 1, 1975, Chief Ekaette was promoted Principal Secretary Grade, level 15. He was posted to the Federal Ministry of Information as Principal Secretary 9November 14, 1975-February 1979 with responsibilities for Policy and Management and Internal Administration of the Ministry. During this period, he also served as a Board member of the Nigerian Television Authority and presided over a number of ad hoc committees on the restructuring of the Nigerian Television Authority and the Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria (FRCN) as well as the establishment of the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) and the Press Council. He was posted to the Federal Ministry of Education as Secretary (February- May, 1979) with responsibility for Personal Management. He also served as Chairman of the Governing Council, National Teachers’ Institute, Kaduna during the period. Chief Ekaette was posted to the Federal Ministry of National Planning as Secretary for Finance and Administration, Grade Level 16 (May 7, 1979- January 1984) in an acting capacity and promoted to substantive position on June 1, 1980. His responsibilities included Personnel Management, Policy Formulation and implementation, Financial Management, Co-ordination of Nigeria’s Relations with Multilateral Economic Organisations and Bilateral Economic Co-operation with Foreign Governments and Organisations as well as Policy issues relating to the operations of the Federal Office of Statistics, Centre for Management (CMD) and Nigeria Institute for Social and Economic Research (NISER). He participated during the period in several high-level bilateral talks between Nigeria and Foreign Governments and served as Leader of Delegations at official level in a number of Joint Economic Commissions between Nigeria and Foreign Countries both in Nigeria and abroad. He was also responsible for coordinating the work of the Ministry at the official level whenever the Permanent Secretary was away on leave or official assignment abroad. He also served as a member of the Administrative Staff Posting and Promotions Committee.
To be continued tomorrow.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .