 Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike (left) during a press conference on the dispute with Bayelsa State over Soku oil fields in Port Harcourt…yesterday.  Wike described the allegations made against him by his Bayelsa counterpart as baseless.“In 2002, the NBC altered the boundary in the 11th Edition of the Administrative Map of Nigeria.  They made a mistake by shifting the boundary from River Santa Barbara to River St Batholomew. At the Supreme Court, the NBC wrote a letter admitting their error. The Supreme Court made an order for the NBC to correct the error of the 11th Edition in the 12th Edition,” he said. Wike said seven years after the Supreme Court gave the order, the NBC was yet to effect the correction. He said that preliminary report on the 12th Edition, indicated that the NBC made no attempt to obey the order of the Supreme Court.“We had to sue the NBC to enforce the order of the Supreme Court,  where they were directed to ensure that the Boundary Between Rivers and Bayelsa State is River Santa Barbara.  “The Outgoing Bayelsa State Governor is the one trying to cause disharmony by attempting to collect what belongs to the Ijaw in Rivers State.  Contrary to the allegation by the Outgoing Bayelsa State Governor, there is no local Government Area in Rivers State where we don’t have projects.  Let him mention the projects he has in the eight local Government Areas of Bayelsa State.  Dickson cannot in all ramifications compare himself to me in terms of development.”He said that for a small state like Bayelsa,  it was wrong for the outgoing governor to expend N70 billion on an uncompleted airport,  when Bayelsa State lacks good roads and basic infrastructure.He regretted that the outgoing Bayelsa State governor refused to respect the rules of protocol, when he visited the Amanyanabo of Kalabari without informing the Rivers State government. “You have no respect. A traditional ruler who is a first class ruler, recognised by government and you say you are coming to a state as a governor to see Rivers Ijaw people without observing basic protocol,” he said. Governor Wike said there were no oil wars between Rivers State and Imo or Akwa Ibom States as claimed by Dickson.  He said that he went to court against Imo State to challenge the attempt to take what belongs to Rivers State.  He added that he went to court against Akwa Ibom State because of illegal deductions of funds from Rivers State by the agencies of the Federal Government.   According to him, he still enjoys a good working relationship with the Governors of Imo and Akwa Ibom States.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .