 (FILES) In this file photo taken on August 28, 2019 the logo of US online social media and social networking service Facebook is displayed on a tablet in Lille. – Facebook said Tuesday it plans to move ahead with strong encryption for all its messaging applications, claiming that allowing law enforcement special access would end up being “a gift to criminals, hackers and repressive regimes.” (Photo by DENIS CHARLET / AFP)  The database was made available for download last week on an online hacker forum that apparently belonged to a crime group, according to a blog post on the website Comparitech. “We are looking into this issue, but believe this is likely information obtained before changes we made in the past few years to better protect people’s information,” a Facebook spokesperson told AFP. Comparitech said that security researcher Bob Diachenko spotted the database, which was openly accessible and contained Facebook users’ names, user IDs and phone numbers. The discovery was reported and the database was no longer available by Thursday, according to Comparitech. The revelation of the exposed data comes as the social network strives to rebuild trust and alleviate concerns over the protection of people’s information. US regulators earlier this month said that British consultancy Cambridge Analytica — at the center of a massive scandal involving Facebook data hijacking  — deceived the social network’s users about how it collected and handled their personal information. The Federal Trade Commission said its investigation launched in March 2018 concluded that the now-defunct political consulting firm “engaged in deceptive practices to harvest personal information from tens of millions of Facebook users for voter profiling and targeting.” The FTC said the British firm, which worked on Donald Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign, made “false and misleading” claims when it offered Facebook users a “personality quiz” — stating it would not download names or any personally identifiable information. The case created a firestorm over data protection when it was disclosed that Cambridge Analytica was able to create psychological profiles using data from millions of Facebook users. Facebook’s own investigation found that some data from 87 million users in the United States and elsewhere had been compromised by the firm, and claimed the practices violated the social network’s terms of service. Facebook paid a record $5 billion penalty early this year in a settlement with the regulator over mishandling users’ private data. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .