 Captain, Golf Section, Ikoyi Club,  1938, Tunde Johnson, watches Mike Sangster tees off the 2019 Total Charity Golf Tournament held at the Ikoyi Club 1938 golf course… on Saturday.  Bhandary defeated over 150 other participants to win the event’s coveted trophy, leaving Richard Iweanogie in the second position. The top prize in the Ladies category went to Fatoumata Valet, who grossed 30-stableford points to win on countback. Coming in the second position was Princess Oghene with 30-stableford points; she also won on countback, while Christine Vaughan with 30-stableford points came third. Other winners in the keenly contested 18-hole competition were Seyi Siwoku, Ewi Akpata, who won in the gross category for men and Asue Ighodalo, who won in the veteran category TUCN category for men had Patrick Olinma as winner; Obina Okoli came second, while Funto Sokefun won in the ladies category. But the high point of the tournament was the donation to Charity by Total E&P as part of its Social Corporate Responsibility. Beneficiaries of this year’s donations are Paroche Outreach Foundation; a Non Governmental Organisation created to campaign against substance use and abuse and Naijawives Braille Book Production Centre. Apart from Naijawives and Paroche that received donations from Total this year, Pacelli School for the Blind and Partially Sighted People, Cancer Aware Nigeria, Fortitude Children Home and Anawin Home had all benefitted from the proceed of Total Charity Golf Tournament in the past. Speaking at the event of the competition, Managing Director and Chief Executive of Total E&P Nigeria Ltd, Mr. Mike Sangster, said his organisation was committed to supporting sports and using the same to promote charity in Nigeria. He commended the participants in the tournament, noting that the event was for Golf competition and a platform to raise money for charity as part of the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives by the company to support the disadvantaged in Nigeria. The founders of the two NGOs said that the support from Total E&P Nigeria Ltd would go a long way to carry out their obligations. Mrs. Titilola Adebayo, founder of Paroche Outreach Foundation, said she decided to set up the NGO after losing her son, Taiwo Adebayo, who was knocked down by a drunk driver in a hit and run accident. The second NGO, Nigerwives Braille Book Production Centre Founder, Mrs. Jean Obi, said they currently have over 315 titles for primary, secondary and tertiary students available for order on their book list with new books constantly added. She called for more support from other multinational organisations with a view to assist the visual impaired students in Nigeria. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .