Lagos State government has cautioned residents against illegal development of Federal Government’s lands in the state without recourse to the extant laws that stipulate that planning permit should be obtained for all physical developments and use of lands. Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Dr. Idris Salako, gave warning in a statement yesterday. He commissioner drew the attention of the public to the 2003 judgment of the Supreme Court, which vested the physical planning and development of any land in the state of jurisdiction. According to him, any land developed within the state after 2003, without the requisite Planning Permit from the Lagos State Physical Planning Permit Authority (LASPPPA) is illegal, as it contravenes the provisions of the Lagos State Laws and Regulations. Dr. Salako declared that his ministry would henceforth embark on massive enforcement exercise while defaulters would be prosecuted. To him, the move is in consonance with the recently declared zero tolerance for all illegal development of lands in the state. He warned that it would not be business-as-usual for those who are of the habit of developing lands without permit and adherence to the state planning laws. The commissioner further advised residents to ensure voluntary compliance with these rules and give wide circulation to the message. Meanwhile, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has flagged off the Victoria Island/Lekki circulation urban regeneration project. The project is to see the construction and completion of five major roads on the Victoria Island/Lekki corridor in six months. Victoria Island is an important commercial hub and the traffic congestion experienced in the area reduces productivity and discourages business growth. During the flag-off in Lagos, the governor said the Public-Private Partnership (PPP) project approach to it was deliberate; to relieve residents of discomfort in plying the roads. He pleaded with residents to endure the discomfort during the construction of the marked roads, assuring that the state’s traffic management officers would always be available to smoothen vehicular movement during the period. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .