 Ade Adefeko  “It’s been a humble experience, a journey of ups and downs, but I thank God at the end of the day. Like I always say and a lot of people know me with my mantra: ‘For God, Family and Country. I’m extremely grateful to God, who has spared my life these 50 years and made it possible for me to celebrate my golden jubilee. I look forward to many more decades in good health,” he added.
 
But for the golden ‘boy’, the celebration took a philosophical turn as Adefeko reflected on what “should have been or what should be and what has been.” At the end of the day, he remembered mostly the good times.
 
From the onset, his dreams and goals of life were clearly defined. “I have always wanted to be seen as somebody who is contributing to humanity, growth and development of the country through whichever prism of influence that one operates from.
  
“As part of my life philosophy, I don’t dwell on negativity, instead, I radiate positivism. I don’t see challenges, I look at opportunities. I presently operate in the Agricultural value chain space with my company OLAM, as Vice president Corporate and Government Relations where I superintend over communications and stakeholder relations for the group, and prior to that, I had worked with British American Tobacco as Area Head of Communication and Regulation for Nigeria, Niger, Benin and Togo. My experience spans FMCG, Pay television, Banking, and Information Technology.  Going to ‘Unity School’ — Federal Government College in his early life has helped to shape this perception. “So, I don’t see Hausa, Yoruba or Igbo. I speak the three languages very well, and that makes me very national in my outlook.”
 
The consummate commercial diplomat, as he likes to be addressed, does not have time for ethnic, tribal, and religious sentiments, which he considers as ethnic cleavage discussions. “I once told a friend that when politicians are sharing money, nobody asks where he or she comes from, but when it is time to share plum positions or jobs that is when you hear them say he is from south-south, south-east or he is from the north.
 
“The same enthusiasm they exhibit when ‘sharing money’ should also be used to accept that we all have a collective patrimony, and we must make sure that it is a patrimony that works for us all.
  
“People say I tend to discuss too nationally and broadly. That is because I’m a very selfless person and not a selfish person. I’m one who lives on the goodwill and I have very strong goodwill bank. People on the credibility of my goodwill bank get a lot of things done.
 
“You cannot teach a man how, to be honest, you can teach him how to do or be anything else. It is innate, so you are either honest or you are not. So, for me, integrity is very important and you must bring it to bear in everything you do.”  He expressed satisfaction having grown to become a global executive that started somewhere in Nigeria 30 years ago. “As a matter of fact, my birthday month which is November is the birthday month of Olam, and incidentally, Olam is 30 years old this year. So, when people say Ade you are lucky, I often ask them what is luck? I have been doing what I’m doing for the past 30 years from my own sphere of influence just like Olam is doing in its own sphere of influence too. I joined Olam when I was 43, so I have spent about eight years with the company. I’m celebrating 50 and Olam is celebrating 30 years. Take away 30 from 50 and see what it gives you
 
“People don’t know when and how we started, they only see or they are seeing the results now and they say we are lucky or that I’m lucky. We have worked hard, we have invested. People think Nigeria is one of those countries where you bring your briefcase and just go your way,” he retorted.  Adefeko derives happiness in looking at the other man and seeing that he is happy, “that I have helped in one way or the other at the point of need. When I do this I’m happy because I am for inclusive prosperity.
 
“Whatever position you find yourself, savour it but note that it is God’s divine providence. Help those who are in need; the poverty index in Nigeria is very high. That woman selling groundnut, orange, tomatoes and pepper on the street, her total inventory is put at N5000, which is what some people use as money for recharge. From that inventory, she takes care of her family, cooks for husband and children, sends them to school, pay her rent and taxes.
 
“This is why I commend the social investment programme of the current administration. Yes there may be one or two areas that need to be fine-tuned, but we must understand that the vulnerable are vulnerable whether we like it or not; we have to take care of those of them amongst us because a day will come when they will wake up and say the elites have failed us and we must deal with them.”
  
Despite his busy schedules, Adefeko still finds time to relax, which he does by spending quality time bonding with his family, particularly his kids; hence his hashtag ‘for God, Family and Country.  Growing up, he developed a passion for artistic expression as reading newspapers, listened to the news on radio and TV, and did the composition of poems.
 
“I started writing poems at a very early age, so my writing skill was honed right from childhood with the encyclopedias my father bought for us. I love watching sports and documentaries and love travelling. I am one of those kids who never like comics like Captain America, even though I read them sparingly.
 
“Apart from politics which I don’t write on, I write on other spheres of endeavours like an investment, trade, and sports. I refrain from politics because I don’t want to be involved in any political discussion. My political affinity or interest is personal to me.”
  
For Adefeko, retirement is no way near, as he says: “I know when I will retire. I will retire when God and my body tells me. I don’t plan for such things. I live everyday as it is and continue to pray and hope that God keeps me. I’m not one of those who are exercise freak, I’m a boisterous person, so I expend a lot of energy.
  
“I’m healthy not because I made a deliberate attempt but by the mercies of God. Those that know me will tell you how free spirited I’m. I bear no malice against anybody and usually walk away from those arguments that often lead to squabbles.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .