Mixed reactions have continued to trail Kano State government’s plan to ban the opposite genders from entering the same tricycle in the state from January 2020. The state government had said beginning from January 1, 2020, opposite sex riding on the same tricycle, without a proven relationship would be arrested. Speaking at the close of the 77th annual Islamic Vacation Course (IVC), organised by Zone A Muslim Students’ Society of Nigeria (MSSN), held at Bayero University, Kano, the Commander General, Kano State Hisbah Board, Sheikh Mohammad Ibn-Sina, who represented Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, disclosed that it was intended to uphold Islamic values as a Sharia-compliant state. Sheikh Ibn-Sina noted that the introduction of the commercial tricycles, popularly known as ‘A daidaita sahu’ in Kano, by former governor, Ibrahim Shekarau, was deliberately meant to ease transportation for women only. Reacting yesterday, an Islamic scholar, Sheihk Aliyu Yunus Mohammad, said though the policy was in accordance with Islamic Sharia, it should not be imposed on non-Muslims. The cleric, who is also the Chief Imam of Usman Bin-Anfan Central Mosque in Kano, said the practice is not strange in Kano, being a Sharia-compliant state but government has the obligation to raise adequate public awareness on its reintroduction. “We should understand that Kano is a Sharia state since the administration of Mallam Ibrahim Shekarau and as we speak, the law still stands. And when you talk of Sharia, the practice of mix up of opposite sex in a public transport is not allowed because of the consequence. “We all know what can happen to two opposite sex seating close in a tricycle. The tendency of committing sin like formication or adultery is high. Allah has instructed us there should not be mix up with opposite sex, especially in secluded places. However, Sharia is imposed only on Muslims. People can conduct their way of life without any hindrance.” On his part, Bishop Ransom Bello said government should rather tackle insecurity and provide essential means of transportation to the public. The immediate past chairman of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) in Kano, said there is no rational in a policy that will allow a man and a woman in the same car and forbid same persons in a tricycle. “It is very important for the government to be sensitive to the needs of the people, especially in the area of transportation. Now, if this policy is mainly imposed because of religion, I can say in Christianity, we don’t have such  principle that forbid a male and a female from riding on the same tricycle. “And except the government is ready to provide alternative means of transportation that will carry male and female differently, I don’t see any rational for this move. Again, if the decision is about safety of women, government should rather look into setting up systems to check and prevent sexual assault not playing to the gallery by banning men and women in the same means of transportation.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .