Again, another cult clash yesterday led to the shooting and beheading of a 34-year-old man in Calabar, Cross River State capital. In the past two weeks, over seven persons have been killed and beheaded by suspected cultists. It was gathered that the incident occurred at about 8:30 a.m. yesterday on Iboku Street, Calabar South local government area, near a barbershop where the victim who was simply identified as Samuel had gone to have his hair cut. He was standing in front of the barber’s shop with the barber when he was shot and butchered by some armed men suspected to be members of a rival cult group. An eyewitness who is a mobile food vendor said: “I saw two men jumped out from a commercial tricycle and refused to pay the driver, but rather brought out machetes and handguns. They pounced on one of the two men I wanted to sell food to. I abandoned my wares and took to my heels when they used the machetes to smash one of the men’s heads. His companion also ran away.” Another eye witness, a mechanic who pleaded for anonymity, said: “There was stampede when the two men, dressed in black trousers and T-shirts, brandished their machetes and guns. They severed Samuel’s head after they had shot and macheted him. They were about to completely sever the victim’s head when they were dissuaded as a result of shouting by people from their hideouts and a police siren.” He disclosed that the victim lived on Idang Street by Atim Edem Rise Street, and was a trader at the popular Watt Market in Calabar while his mother is a petty trader in the neighborhood. When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Irene Ugbo, confirmed the killing. She said it was the outcome of the ongoing rival cult clash between Klans and Axe groups, which has claimed many lives already. Ugbo said: “We are aware of the killing that happened this morning. The clash is between Klans and Black Axe. Nobody has been arrested but the police are on the trail of the killers.” Meanwhile, the police in Abuja have launched an investigation into how a woman was burnt to death over the weekend. A police spokesperson said charred body of an unidentified woman was found around Area 3 Junction during a patrol by police officers at the weekend. No suspects had been taken into custody in relation to the case, which the police are investigating as a homicide. “The body of the woman whose identity is unknown was found packed in a refuse bag,” police spokesperson, Mariam Yusuf, said in a statement on Monday. Yusuf decried the development as unfortunate and said the command had commenced an investigation. In the meantime, residents have been advised to take extra security caution as criminals become more desperate ahead of holiday seasons for Christmas and New Year.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .