The first edition of the Lagos Traders’ Cup sponsored by the Globacom Limited will commenced on Thursday at the National Institute for Sports (NIS) pitch, National Stadium, Surulere, Lagos. The tournament, according to the organisers, will be a round league format involving 12 teams. In group A will see Agric Coker Market compete with Togo Tailors Association, Rada Lawanson Market 2, Rada Lawanson Market 1, Tejuosho Textile Market 1, and Yaba Bureau De Change to book a place in the next stage of the competition. In group B are Tejuosho Textile Market 2 will compete with Cooling Parts, Adekunle, Honda Place, Oyingbo, Shoe Man Dealers Association, Balogun, Idi-Araba Bureau De Change and Mapata Cole Street. The will go home with a trophy and a cash prize of N1 million, while the first and second runners up will receive N500,000 and N300,000 respectively. Speaking on the occasion, the Head, Broker Channel, Enterprise Group, Globacom, Mr. Muyiwa Ajomale, said he hoped the best team wins the tournament.“We are here to support sports based on our belief and our solution in backing any laudable project that is being organised by Nigerians and this is to bring all the traders in Lagos State together. “The essence of partnering with the organisers of this competition is to give them solution in terms of telecommunications. Solutions in terms of coverage and for the traders to be able to call and express themselves for as long as they want at a highly reduced tariff which comes with a token of a monthly charge to bring all the traders in Lagos State together in a close user group.” The Regional Manager, Globacom Victor Kalu, who assured of a continuous support from the telecommunications giant, said, “Globacom is a Nigerian brand and whatever programme that excites Nigerian people, Glo is willing to identify with such. “So traders are the engine room of the economy and football is one of the things that bind the country together. Glo is proud to associate with the traders and also with anything football.“I advice the traders to come out and have fun. It is one thing to always be interested in business but your health is important.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .