• As Different Interest Groups, Individuals Demand Juicy Slots
President Muhammadu Buhari’s decision to dissolve the yet to be inaugurated Odubu-led board of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), after due clearance by the Senate, has continued to attracted comments, as some stakeholders demand equity in the re-composition. As the high wired Also Rock politics is resolved in favour of those demanding cleanup of the intervention agency by the Interim Management Committee (IMC), it has also resonated the clamour for sourcing the board’s chairmanship and managing director from among appropriate nationalities of the oil producing states. Interestingly, some ethnic nationalities, who felt sidelined in the earlier composition, are saying equity should be Buhari’s watchword, whenever he decides to put a new board in place. A former university teacher, and Regional Director of Access Bank Plc., and presently MD/CEO, Fist Business Academy, Liberty Investments and Corel Consulting Ltd., Chief Godwin Ossai, said the President is on the right path, and should do more in that direction. “Buhari should do same for other drain pipes in Nigeria and follow through, because it is long overdue. He should not just stop at oil and gas, but should do the same in power, energy, mines, industries, roads, education and other sectors. Let him use his last breath to sanitise the place,” he said. Dr. Lerroy Edozien, an All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart in Delta State, said: “Firstly, it is good there is now certainty on how government is proceeding on this matter. Hitherto, the uncertainty about the status of IMC and the cleared Board was promoting factionalism in APC and the Niger Delta communities. “Secondly, it is important for the new Board to start on a clean slate. So, it makes sense for the audit to be completed prior to inauguration of the new Board. Thirdly, all stakeholders should seize this opportunity to reflect on lessons to be learned from NDDC’s past history, and the handling of the recent changes of management. Going forward, we must be clear about the NDDC concept of  ‘development.” Chairman, Concerned Agbor Citizen (CAC), Mr. Echi Obue said in his opinion, the report of the sack of the yet-to-be-inaugurated NDDC Board, with Buhari giving apparent approval of the IMC, has resolved the seeming friction in his government. “It has now become clear that until the forensic audit report of the intervention agency is completed, a substantive management body cannot be created,” he said The State Commissioner for Higher Education, Prof. Patrick Muoboghare’s response was comical, as he quoted the late Fela Anikulapo-Kuti song, singing, “Nigeria dey roll, like one yeye ball, wey one yeye breeze dey blow, from one yeye corner.” The Coordinator, Niger Delta Vanguard for Good Governance, Comrade Ebi Brisibe, who hitherto demanded the scrapping of the IMC, stated: “It is the President’s sole responsibility and discretion to hire and fire any appointee. The moral question is, why allow the Senate to go through this rigorous process before sacking the board? For the Ijaw youth leader, “The President should do the needful, by allowing Bayelsa State, whose turn it is to produce the next NDDC Managing Director without any further political interference.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .