 Group Chief Executive Officer, Guardian Group, Habeeb Adekunle Quadri (left); Honorary Secretary, Lagos Lawn Tennis Club, Olumide Odusoga and President, Ademola Akin-Taylor during the 2019 gala night of the club in Lagos…at the weekend.       				    PHOTO: FEMI ADEBESIN-KUTI<br />  Speaking at the 2019 Gala Nite organised by Lagos Lawn Tennis Club over the weekend, prominent dignitaries among who were Ooni of Ife, Oba Enitan Adeyeye Ogunwusi (Ojaja II), a businessman and philanthropist, Chief Adebutu Kessington, president of the club, Mr. Ademola Akin-Taylor, Oba Saheed Ademola Elegushi, Group Chief Executive Officer (GCEO), The Guardian Group, Dr. Habeeb Adekunle Quadri, representative of the Speaker of Lagos State House of Assembly, Mr. Mudashiru Obasa, and others harped on the need for youths to work hard and put in their best instead of allowing the urge to make quick wealth drives them into heinous activities. In an interview with The Guardian, Kessington said it was disturbing the rate at which youths crave for wealth today without wanting to work hard or exercise patience, noting, “There could be no shortcut to success or wealth except through hard work with patience or perseverance. These three ingredients are key to making wealth. We didn’t just become wealthy overnight. I recall in those days, we struggled and put in our best to make something meaningful out of life and today we are reaping the fruit of our labour.” When asked to comment on the excuse that the governments and his generation have failed to create an enabling environment for the youths, he said, “Such sentiments cannot be taken as an excuse for not working hard or be patient or persevere. These challenges are there during our time but we were able to overcome. It is not possible to become a millionaire or billionaire in a twinkling of an eye; business or whatever endeavour must be given the time to grow. Even in sports, it requires a lot of effort to become a star even when the talent is there.” Akin-Taylor said the club is not only about merriment but is into several things to support youth development, especially in the area of sports. The Ooni of Ife had earlier expressed concern over the alarming rate of youth unemployment and school dropouts in Nigeria, saying it is a development that calls for concerted efforts to address. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .