Yoruba Youth Socio-cultural Association (YYSA) worldwide has called on the Houses of Assembly in no fewer than 23 states across the country where former governors and their deputies receive hundreds of millions annually as pensions to abolish the law. The affected states include Lagos, Oyo, Ondo, Osun, Edo, Imo, Kwara, Sokoto, and Borno. The umbrella body of Yoruba youth groups made the call through its national president, Olalekan Hammed, in a statement made available to The Guardian in Ibadan yesterday. The youth leader emphasised that four to eight service years as governor unworthy of life pension, especially considering what the governors acquired while in office through their influence, as well as their new retirement benefit as political officeholders. “In fact, giving them jumbo pension amounts to mismanagement of resources that could be used productively for infrastructure development in the affected states. “Moreover, majority of them are already billionaires and millionaires. “But since they were unable to be considerate with the level of poverty and lack of social amenities is those states, it is advisable for the Houses of Assembly in all the concerned states to abolish the jumbo pension laws for ex-governors and their deputies. They should work towards implementation of the new minimum wage instead,” the group stated. In another vein, the Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON), Oyo State chapter, yesterday decried the planned appointment of caretaker chairmen for the 33 councils in the state by Governor Seyi Makinde. A statement by the chairman, Ayodeji Abass-Aleshinloye, described the plan as tales by moonlight on grassroots democratic governance. According to him, the governor’s plan is a tale better told to the uninformed and co-deceptive wreckers of the democratic culture. He drew the governor’s attention to the subsisting court judgments, even from the Supreme Court, that declared dissolution of elected council officials as illegal. “The governor is fully aware of this and the specific judgment of the Oyo State High Court, which re-emphasised same and restrained the governor and House of Assembly from dissolving local governments.” Meanwhile, the presiding bishop, Living Faith Church (LFC), David Oyedepo, has lamented the state of Nigeria, while declaring that it requires urgent restoration. Oyedepo, who spoke yesterday during a ‘Pre-Shiloh Encounter Service’, lamented that things had gone backward in the country. The cleric, however, expressed hope that God would raise people who are upright and full of integrity to restore the nation’s glory. He said: “If there is any nation in the world that requires and needs restoration, it is Nigeria. People that will restore the country back to glory will rise in their numbers. “In those days, when you buy a used car, you don’t celebrate it because you will be laughed at. In those days, if somebody wants to give you a lift on a motorbike, you would refuse the gesture. But today, see how bad things have become. But God has vowed to raise a people who shall become repairer of bridges and restorers of the path to walk in. “These will be people of integrity and will not be ashamed to testify that it was the Lord’s doing. Men like Daniel that nothing incriminating will be found in them, men like Joseph who will declare ‘but I fear God’ will arise for this country.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .