The Records and Information Management Awareness (RIMA) foundation in partnership with the Institute of Information Management (IIM), has said strong leadership and professionalism in knowledge management is key to harnessing opportunities in the new digital disruption era. Stating that information management is grossly misconceived in Nigeria, President/Chairman, Governing Council, Institute of Information Management (IIM), Dr. Oyedokun Oyewole, charged information managers to evolve and assume their rightful position.
Speaking during the stakeholders’ forum, Oyewole said government and many organisations are yet to regard data as essential corporate assets, with a clear understanding of the difference between Information Technology (IT) and Information Management (IM). “We are in exciting times with data and technology at the heart of many major transformational initiatives and policies, in both public and private organisations. We desire to develop and propagate the industry in Africa and across the globe,” he noted. Calling on for an effective National Digital Economy Policy implementation, he said consistent engagement of the Ministry of Information and Culture on effective information governance will boost management.He recommended that the government agencies be repositioned on issues concerning data, information, records, archives, and contents management in Nigeria. “We call for a possible separation of the Ministry from Culture and the establishment of the National Information Management Development Agency (NIMDA), which will be tasked with managing the information lifecycle of data, information, documents, and archives generated by all government agencies. This is to ensure that enabling standards, laws, and policies are in place for a good data and information governance regime in the country,” he added.Oyewole added that the primary requirements for a value-driven information management Industry are skilled manpower, legislations, standards, and government support. “We need to set standards, ensure that qualified and certified personnel are assigned to the management of government data and information. We charge the government to develop and promote best practices in its business processes and provide adequate training and monitoring for data and information management personnel in government.“We will work with other relevant government agencies in ensuring that appropriate information management and technology tools are deployed at all government MDAs for effective information security and governance,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .