 Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria. Photo/Nairametrics  It will also encourage the production and utilisation of local products, not only in agriculture sector, but across board. “The young accountants need to be skilful and innovative, as the future of Nigeria, lies in their hands,” he added.
  
ICAN President, Nnamdi Okwuadigbo, said as new technologies evolve with their disruptive impacts on the profession, a rethinking of service delivery models as accountants is imperative. This, would not only safeguard professionals’ relevance in the new economic order, but also equip them with the necessary tools required to contribute to building a greater Nigeria. 
 
Speaking on the theme, “Building a greater Nigeria through innovation, technology and entrepreneurship,” Okwuadigbo said it is clear that no economy, profession or individual can have a competitive edge in the market without deliberate focus on creative thinking, and leveraging technology to improve service delivery as the global economy is now innovation-driven.  He said, “It is noteworthy that Nigeria has equally keyed into the global wave of Science, Technology and Innovation (STI) through various initiatives including the Executive Order 5, signed by President Muhammadu Buhari. The different innovation hubs sprawling across the countries are also important signal that Nigeria is set for innovation revolution that would continue to disrupt all sectors, disciplines and professions. All these developments are critical to building a resilient economy that would compete favourably with other economies across the globe.”
 
He said globalisation is bringing down geographical barriers, as employers can engage employees anywhere across the globe without physical contact. This, he added, comes with both advantages and disadvantages even as it requires all professionals to start adopting an entrepreneurial mindset as the concept of job is changing. “What then would be the prospects for practitioners in the accounting profession? What skills would be required of accounting technicians in the new dispensation? These and several other questions should agitate the minds of everyone, as the new dispensation holds huge potential for accountants who would leverage the opportunities,” Okwuadigbo said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .