A high court sitting in Yola, Adamawa State, has sentenced one Ibrahim Mustapha, a fake medical doctor to 54 years in prison. The judge Justice Nathan Musa gave the judgements following Mustapha’s admittance of guilt in a 9-count charge against him. Justice Nathan said the verdict was in consideration of the plea by Mustapha’s lawyer. “On counts one to three, I sentenced him six months each with the option of fine of N20,000 each,” the judge ruled. “On count eight, I sentence him to three years imprisonment with the option of N50,000 fine. “On counts four, five, six, seven and 10, I sentenced him to 10 years of prison term on each of the counts without the option of a fine,” Justice Nathan ruled. Nigeria’s Department of State Services (DSS) paraded Mustapha, who served as Principal Medical Director of Fufore Cottage Hospital in Adamawa state on Friday, June 21 over allegations of practising with forged certificates. DSS director in Adamawa Bola Olori said investigations revealed that Mustapha did not study medicine but holds the National Board of Technical Education (NBTE) certificate. He added that Mr Mustapha perfected the illicit act of impersonation as a Doctor in Gombe where he worked as a ward attendant in several clinics, after being aided by a practising doctor. Mustapha in a chat with journalists during his parade admitted to conducting several surgeries but denied that any patients died. “I did many surgeries, more than 500, which were very successful. Equally, I am proud that I know what I’m doing and as far as surgery is concerned, I don’t have any death,” Mustapha said in June. Reacting to his Mustapha’s arrest, Adamawa State Governor Ahmadu Fintiri in a press briefing suggested that the fake doctor may have killed 15 people through unprofessional surgeries at the cottage hospitals. The governor said his administration was going to set up a committee to identify fake medical doctors in the state to sanitize the state’s health sector.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .