 From left: Wife of Vice President; Mrs Dolapo Osinbajo; Vice President Yemi Osinbajo;  Sen. Abiola Ajimobi; his Wife Florence,  during a roundtable discourse to mark the  70th birthday of Ajimobi in Ibadan on Monday (16/12/19). Photo: Olayinka Bode-Are/NAN  Osinbajo stated this yesterday during the second Abiola Ajimobi Roundtable marking his 70th birthday with the theme ‘Managing the Dynamics of Nigeria’s Advancement: The Socio-Economic Perspectives’ at the International Conference Centre, University of Ibadan, Oyo State. The vice president said: “I wish my egbon (elder brother) happy 70th birthday. I think the important fact of this celebration is the annual conversation on the issues of governance and development in Nigeria. “This particular conversation is very important. There are two issues. One is the environment for local and foreign investment and the second is eradicating poverty. It is only obvious that we are behind the race in eradicating poverty. Before now, there was no systemic approach to eradicating poverty in our country. “This is why in 2015, the All Progressives Congress (APC) decided as a matter of policy to write the Social Investment Programme (SIP) into our manifesto. The programme was deliberate. And this is meant to be the first step in our efforts to tackle poverty.” The roundtable was moderated by Prof. Tunji Olaopa, while discussants included Prof. Ayo Olukotun, Mrs. Ibukun Awosika, Rauf Aregbesola and Mr. Seun Onigbinde. Mrs. Awosika stressed the need for infrastructural development and entrepreneurship education. “We can’t punish people for working hard. We must create opportunities for all to pay taxes that are due to them. We need to create an environment for all to be economically valuable. We need to create a system that works for all. We want every Nigerian to work for the country to grow,” she added. Onigbinde stressed the need to strengthen the productivity of the country through education. His words, “We have to strengthen the productivity of Nigeria. We need to think about productivity. Agriculture is not our silver bullet.” Prof. Olukotun, who was the lead discussant, stressed the need for the country to double up to address the challenge of poverty and audit various development programmes to strengthen them. The Minister of Interior, Rauf  Aregbesola, who said he spoke as a politician, not a minister, underscored the importance of skill acquisition for a better life. “Skill acquisition is the basis of life. We need to emphasise skill acquisition in all aspects of our life. Electricity is the key to modern Life. “We must mercilessly tax the rich to make Nigeria work for the poor who are in the majority,” he said. Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State, who spoke on behalf of governors present, prayed for sound health for the former governor. The celebrator, Senator Ajimobi, said he was the only male in his family to attain the age of 70. The Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III and the Ooni of Ife, Oba Enitan Adeyeye Ogunwusi Ogaga I, were also at the event. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .