Enyimba celebrating their winning goal against San Pedro… on Sunday. Enyimba heaved a collective sigh of relief on Sunday when the referee ended their clash with San Pedro FC. The 1-0 win gave the Peoples Elephant their first three points of the group stage after a faulty start on matchday one. The players, their officials and fans celebrated the win as if they had already qualified for the semifinals of the Confederation Cup. Explaining the team’s satisfaction after the game, Enyimba Chairman, Felix Anyansi Agwu said the win has raised the team’s confidence level, adding that they would now play their remaining games knowing they have the ability to beat any team in the group. Anyansi said, “What matters is the three points that has raised the confidence of the team. “We have the confidence that we can win our last group game against Paradou AC of Algeria on December 28.” Anyansi called on the team’s supports to rally round the Peoples Elephant as they fight to add the Confederation Cup to their trophy chest. Martins Usule came off the bench to score the vital winner that took Enyimba to the second spot on the Group D. Usman Abd’Allah’s men were clearly second best in the opening half but produced a much-improved performance in the second period, with the match winning strike arriving shortly after the hour mark. The visitors kicked off brightly and appeared to have taken the lead when Roland Zanbi found the net in the third minute, but the effort was ruled out for offside. Abd’Allah rang two changes minutes into the restart, throwing in debutante Anayo Iwuala and Usule for Stanley Dimgba and Samson Obi, before the gaffer was eventually forced into a third change moments later as Abiodun Adebayo replaced the injured Ifeanyi Anaemena. The win has shot Enyimba to second in group D with three points, three shy of leaders Hassania Agadir who have enjoyed a perfect start with two wins. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .