Nick Jonas And Priyanka Chopra Celebrate One-Year Wedding Anniversary. | Image: ALEXI LUBOMIRSKI/RALPH LAUREN/People American singer Nick Jonas and Indian actress Priyanka Chopra tied the knot in one of the most talked-about wedding ceremonies of 2018, a year later, the celebrity couple exchange affectionate messages to celebrate their first wedding anniversary. Jonas, 27, took to his Instagram page on Sunday to share an affectionate message: “One year ago today we said forever… well forever isn’t nearly long enough. I love you with all of my heart @priyankachopra happy anniversary.”   One year ago today we said forever… well forever isn’t nearly long enough. I love you with all of my heart @priyankachopra happy anniversary. A post shared by  Nick Jonas (@nickjonas) on Dec 1, 2019 at 11:23am PST  In the same vein, Chopra, 37, took to her own Instagram page to share a set of wedding photos along with a sweet message for her husband: “My promise. Then..today.. forever. You bring me joy, grace, balance, excitement, passion.. all in the same moment…thank you for finding me..Happy First wedding anniversary Husband.. @nickjonas 
And Thank you to everyone for the love and good wishes. We feel blessed.”   My promise. Then..today.. forever. You bring me joy, grace, balance, excitement, passion.. all in the same moment…thank you for finding me..Happy First wedding anniversary Husband.. @nickjonas  And Thank you to everyone for the love and good wishes. We feel blessed. A post shared by  Priyanka Chopra Jonas (@priyankachopra) on Dec 1, 2019 at 1:38pm PST  The Jonas and Chopra tied the knot during a Western wedding in Chopra’s home country of India on the 1st of December, 2018. The nuptials, held at the Umaid Bhawan Palace in Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India. The next day, the couple exchanged vows for the second time with a lavish Hindu wedding. Priyanka Chopra is an Indian actress, singer and film producer. She won the Miss World pageant in 2000. She is one of India’s highest-paid and most popular celebrities. Nick Jonas is an American singer, songwriter and actor. He formed Jonas Brothers a pop Rock band with his older brothers, Joe and Kevin in 2005. Jonas appeared in the adventure comedy film Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle, the fifth highest-grossing film in 2017.