 Photo; FRANCHISEINDIA  One thing I have often heard these days is that “giving the way the economy has changed, the growing rate of business foreclosures that is going on – many people are anxious about their future”… “So it’s not wise to take the risk of starting an online business at this time”! Sure, the economy does have an effect on the local Nigerian market, but things are different in the online market. Operating across national boundaries, there is an infinite amount of customers and clients you can reach. The thing is to think more about quality, about identifying your ideal clients, their needs and pain points, and choosing a business idea that addresses those needs. That’s how your business does well.
 
A few years back, when I mentioned to a friend of mine, that I am running an online school, he was not quite sure he heard me right: “Did you say you have an Online School?” he asked. Who would blame him? Myths are being spread around that, “You have to be techy to run an online coaching business”; “Online coaching is for young people”! This is not true! The truth is, basic techy skills are now easy to learn, without having to use codes, and designs are now more user-friendly than ever. And you get to meet online learners from across national boundaries, impact lives and it is rewarding! An excuse that held me back from starting my own online coaching business for about two years running was that I hate sales. Then, I would say: “I don’t like sales, so how do I sell my online course?”…”I don’t like pushing people to do things they don’t want to do”… “I’d rather be on the creative side than on the sales side”. Does this sound familiar? So, don’t be so quick to judge! You don’t have to be an expert at sales to successfully sell online. Stories abound of people who were poor at sales but turned out to be successful online business owners. To be sure, many online sales techniques are readily available, to help you sell online.  Finally, there are those who would say, “I want everything to be right first”! But lots of business opportunities are being lost as you wait for everything to be right first before you start. Besides, nothing will ever be perfect, no matter how much you try. So, you don’t have to wait for things to be perfect to start. The thing is to start now and keep improving as you grow.
 
Can you think of other excuses that you or others make, that keep you from coaching online? The thing is that you will have to give up some of these excuses in order to launch your first online coaching programme. And I challenge you to do that! Hunder, a former bank executive in corporate Nigeria turned online business coach, is CEO MH Productivehabits.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .