Lagos State Government has said the solution to incessant gridlock experienced in the metropolis is to create an alternative intermodal transport system. Speaking yesterday at the maiden edition of Lagos Transport Fest, Commissioner of Transportation, Dr. Frederick Oladeinde, said the solution to traffic problem in the state is creating options. He said there was need for synergy between private and public sector to drive transport system in the state. According to him, “building roads would not solve the problem of gridlock in the state, the government must develop a transport policy driven by technology”.He listed the process to include a common ticketing system that allows commuters, passengers to use a single card for bus, boat and rail; timetable and location integration and integration between where people live and work.He noted that governor Sanwo-Olu’s administration is working towards an inclusive government where intelligent transport system would be attained. Speaking on ‘the future of mobility’, Business head, Port Operations for Kobo360, Nkiru Amadi-Emina, said Nigeria needs a government that focuses more on infrastructure development. Amadi-Emina said apart from intermodal transport system, there was need for a good regulatory framework that would govern the activities of operators within the sector. Giving insight on how private sector can build infrastructure, she said: “I think there should be more public/private partnerships policies that are being implemented. There should be more concessions given to private individuals that choose to take the initiative. Governments should be able to take initiative, act fast and execute. There should be more partnership with private organizations, that would allow them fix the things that needs to be fixed, to ensure that our operations run smoothly.”
Regional Manager, Bolt West Africa, Uche Okafor, said the world has shifted to the future of mobility.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .