Former Brazil international Hulk has ended his 12 years relationship with his wife Iran Angelo de Souza to date her niece. Hulk, real name Givanildo Vieira de Sousa, had three children, two boys – Ian, 10 and Tiago 8, and a girl – Alice 6, with his divorced wife. Hulk representatives confirmed he has been dating his former niece-in-law Camila since October, who has since been forced to delete her social media accounts. The representative told a Brazilian website UOL Esporte, that Hulk’s announcement about him seeing Camila makes his position “transparent”. “It was Hulk himself who made the news public because he did not want to hide anything. His position is transparent,” the representative said in a statement. Camila was reportedly Iran’s “favourite niece”, with the pair sharing many happy pictures together on Instagram. In a reaction and a way to say sorry to niece, Camila “apologised” to Iran. “Aunt Iran, I first want to tell you that this message is not an explanation or justification of anything,” Camila wrote on her Instagram page. “I’m sorry for everything. If I could choose, we wouldn’t be going through this, but life doesn’t spin the way we imagine it to. “He showed me that there was no chance of a possible return, so we allowed ourselves to live. “Although it is irrelevant to you now, I love you very much and care about you, so I am speaking here. “I really want you to know things that maybe everyone will talk about differently, mere speculation, but I don’t really judge them because outsiders know absolutely nothing and most of the time just want the situation to be worse. “It’s been very hard to face all this, but I wouldn’t do it if it wasn’t true. “I never imagined it could happen, but we don’t rule our heart, no one is immune or exempt from it. Live the greatest of feelings. Hulk’s former wife Iran felt slighted by his action. She told a UOL columnist Leo Dias:  “It is deeply regretted that Mr Hulk, not content with ending a marriage of more than 12 years, he then did not respect the pain of the one who always devoted love, affection, respect and consideration to him – as well as his children, whose supreme interests should be preserved by their father. “