• Varsity Honours Former President, Elegushi, Omotola, Others At 17th Convocation
Former President, Dr. Goodluck Ebele Jonathan has been described as the country’s truest democrat, and a man whose love for the nation and Nigerians is pure. The Esama of Benin and Chancellor, Igbinedion University Okada (IUO), Chief Gabriel Osawaru Igbinedion, made the remark, yesterday, in Okada, Edo State, during the institution’s 17th convocation and conferment of honourary degrees among others. He said: “Today is very significant in my life, not only because of the calibre of personalities being honoured at this convocation, but more also because of the presence of the former President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Dr. Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, Nigeria’s truest democrat; a man whose love for Nigeria and Nigerians is pure. “Jonathan was the man who declared during his presidential campaign in 2015 that his presidential ambition did not worth the blood of a single Nigerian.” Igbinedion said the institution was out to blaze trails and train students, who can compete favourably with graduates from any part of the world. According to him, the selection of personalities for the institution’s honorary doctorate degrees was purely on merit, following their pedigree and contributions to the development of the country. Speaking at the event, Jonathan commended the Esama for his doggedness as the pioneer investor in private university education in the country. The former president showered encomiums on Igbinedion saying his legacies, particularly in the education sector have continued to dictate the pace for other private universities to follow. Other eminent personalities honoured with doctorate degrees include, His Royal Majesty, Oba Saheed Ademola Elegushi  (Kusenla III) of Ikateland, Lagos; Chairman Business International Management, Mr. Sow Bertin Agba; Nollywood actress, Omotola Jalade-Ekeinde, among others. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .