It was an exciting moment for Nigeria’s first one-day kid-CEO, Adeoluwa Ademuwa Ifeoluwa, as he recently met with movie star Dakore Egbuson-Akande and singer Praiz at the MTN’s head office in Ikoyi, Lagos. The 14-year-old wunderkind was the SS3 student, who had assumed the role of MTN Nigeria’s first one-day kid-CEO. Dakore, who stunned in the perfect orange number was excited to meet the Kid-CEO and winner of the Lagos State Private Schools Spelling Bee. Praiz had given a soulful rendition of the national anthem earlier in the day, and he gave resounding thumbs-up to Ademuwa, who was busy having a fan-moment while talking to two of his favourite stars. “I didn’t know I was going to see them today,” an ecstatic Ademuwa shared later as he bounced on his feet happily. The celebrities had loosened the tongue of the usually shy and confident boy; they had made the day of young fan and topped it all with exclusive photos with the Kid-CEO. Ademuwa, who gave a peek into his life and what motivates him at such a young age, stepped into the MTN Plaza, Ikoyi, Lagos, on December 5, to assume office for one very interesting day. The staff gave him a standing ovation as he walked in; that was a very emotional sight for the young man. Then it was off to an onboarding session with the Chief Marketing Officer, Rahul De and the Acting Chief Human Resources Officer, Kemi Adisa, who gave him pointers for his day on the job, and explained the different aspects of the MTN culture. After the session, the spelling champion met with the Chief Executive Officer of MTN Nigeria, Ferdi Moolman, and you should see the look on the young CEO’s face; he was blushing. Work began immediately and he organised a meeting after meeting. Other finalists from the spelling Bee, who made up his executive team, joined him. Each child came along with a parent; it was intriguing to see their very proud parents in action. Later, he shared his moving story on how his father died after a brief illness and how he was focusing on ensuring that others do not experience that same pain. “I want to be a doctor because of what happened to my dad. I want to save people so that they don’t have to go through the pain,” young Ademuwa said as he tried to hold back emotions. After receiving a cash prize, customized bags and other items, he joined the 5G-demonstration session on the ground floor, where he met Nigerian stars, Dakore Egbuson Akande and Praiz. “I can’t forget today. It has been crazy and I enjoyed my self,” excited Ademuwa said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .