Ward 10 Warriors will meet Ward Five United in the final match of the fourth Northwest Calabar Municipal Football Tournament tomorrow in Ikot Ishie, Calabar, Cross River State. Akim United won Efa Babes to clinch third position.For the past four years, North West Petroleum has been sponsoring the football tournament for youths in the Calabar Municipality as part of its efforts to take the youths off the streets and return the state to its number one position in football and other sports in the country. The Chairman of the tournament’s Organising Committee, Ntufam Donatus Etim said since the tournament started, it had helped in checking crime in the society as many youths are engaged, adding, “when football used to be mentioned, Calabar was often in the front burner, but it has changed from that record and football has lost its place in the state. We no longer have school sports, where schools play against themselves; even community games where these talents were harnessed are no more. “But thank God for this tournament and a big thanks goes to the Managing Director and Chief Executive of Northwest Petroleum and Gas for their magnanimity over the last four years as far as this tournament is concern. “We can tell you that some other states have borrowed from what we have done with this tournament in our community. Like in Delta State, this is going to be their second year of this similar tournament. We are also grateful for the media coverage this tournament has enjoyed as well.” He urged other companies and even individuals to also “look into similar sports tournament sponsorship. “It should not be only football. Let other sports be given attention. It will surprise you on how much this state and country can generate as foreign direct investment and exchange if we have players from the state playing overseas.The winner of the competition will get N250, 000, while N150, 000 and N100, 000 will go to the second and third placed teams respectively.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .