Continued deployment of the Dairy Development Programme (DDP) in rural communities is expected to improve the livelihood of farmers and improve their contributions to the economy. According to FrieslandCampina WAMCO Nigeria, the deployment of DDP aligns with its ambition to improve the standard of living of dairy farmers and their families in Nigeria, where it operates its Programme. The firm added that farmers are given the opportunity to participate in technical and entrepreneurial training, thus safeguarding food security and nutrition. The Executive Director, Corporate Affairs, FrieslandCampina WAMCO, Ore Famurewa, explained that “At FrieslandCampina WAMCO, we are proud of the over 7,000 farmers including female dairy farmers who have been empowered under our Dairy Development Programme, across Oyo, Ogun and Osun States respectively. We are particularly happy with the increased access they have to a better life as they are able to support themselves and send their children to school. “It is pertinent to reiterate that FrieslandCampina WAMCO is a responsible corporate entity in Nigeria and does not condone any form of undue commercial exploitation in any of its processes. The company is fully committed to preventing and eliminating any form of child labour in its supply chain. It continually works with stakeholders to develop and implement meaningful solutions, in line with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and with the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. “This ethos consistently forms part of its engagement with the pastoralist and smallholder farmers. Additional review will be done to ensure all practices remain in line with the Oyo State Child Rights Law 2006 in particular and the Laws of Nigeria in general”. The firm noted that an international non-profit organization, Partner Africa, has been engaged to conduct an independent investigation of its Dairy Development sites, after which the results of the investigation will be made public. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .