Rector, Federal Polytechnic, Ado Ekiti, Dr. Hephzibar Oladebeye, has disclosed that the dichotomy between university and polytechnic graduates should not deter admission seekers from choosing polytechnics. Oladebeye allayed the fear that the dichotomy between university and polytechnic graduates is already being addressed, as it has been largely removed by the Federal Government. The rector said the time has come for the country to place a priority on the acquisition of technical education, saying many of the diploma holders are doing far better than their counterparts from the universities. Oladebeye spoke when the dean, school of environmental studies, Abiodun Oyedokun presented the laurel won by students of the department at the inter-school quiz competition organised by the Nigerian Institute of Quantity Surveyors. Oyedokun said the competition involved the Nigerian polytechnic and universities offering quantity surveying across the nation. While commending the Federal Government over its handling of the dichotomy issue, the rector noted that the fact that one is a graduate of polytechnics does not make him inferior academically and in competence to bachelor degree holders. “The issue of dichotomy is being handled by the government and if you check the records, the entry point for both higher national and bachelor degrees is now the same. But what remains is that HND holders are given a title of technology while bachelor holders are called engineers, that is in the engineering field and this has to be nipped in the bud. “In actual fact, I don’t see anything in this much-touted dichotomy of a thing, because it only applies when HND holders are not ready to go further. If you know you have a good grade at HND, you can easily go to university and get your postgraduate diploma and master’s degree and dichotomy will cease to apply in your case. He commended the students for making the polytechnic proud, saying, “This is the kind of achievement we want to hear about. While some are engaging in unprofitable ventures, you are bringing laurels that will project our image. This is proof that we know what we are doing here. You have done the institution, myself and yourselves proud with this feat”. `Oyedokun, said the students had earlier won the southwest quiz competition before proceeding to the national level to win another laurel. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .