• Insists legislature, not presidency’s rubber stamp
• Lawmakers to expedite action on the electoral bill after Yuletide Despite the criticisms that followed President Muhammadu Buhari’s request to the Senate for the approval of a $29.96 billion loan, Senate President Ahmad Lawan yesterday insisted that the chamber would grant his desire. Lawan, who stated this while answering questions on the loan request at a media briefing in Abuja, also denied he ever advised the Federal Government to stop taking loans to fund infrastructure. But on October 23, 2019, at the opening session of a two-day public hearing organised by the National Assembly on the 2020 federal budget, Lawan had cautioned the Federal Government, saying: “We cannot continue to borrow to build our infrastructure. I belong to that school that believes that where we can have a PPP (Public-Private Partnership) to build our infrastructure, we should do that. “I feel that if we can build our road from Abuja to Kaduna or Kano with the private funds and they design a way to collect their money, let us do that. “Other countries have done that and it worked. As long as we are not shortchanged, we have to look at it. If we have to borrow, we should borrow it. Where there is another opportunity, we should explore that.” Lawan yesterday noted that the Senate would ensure the projects are properly executed once the loan is taken. “Yes, if you do not have money and you have projects that require you to provide the infrastructure that you need, nothing will really militate against passing the request. However, we are going to be critical, so that every cent borrowed is tied to a project,” he said. He noted further: “We will also ensure that these are projects will have spillover effects on the economy and we will undertake our oversight to ensure such money is prudently applied on those projects.” In November 2018, the Eighth Senate had unanimously thrown out Buhari’s request for the loan, saying the letter conveying it was not accompanied by a borrowing plan. But while making a fresh request, Buhari had explained that approval would ensure prompt implementation of projects under the borrowing plan with emphasis on infrastructure, agriculture, health, education, water supply, growth and employment generation, poverty reduction through social safety net programmes, governance and financial management reforms among others. His letter to the Senate reads in part: “I hereby request the resolution of the Senate to approve the Federal Government’s 2016-2018 external borrowing plan as well as relevant projects under this plan. Specifically, the Senate is invited to note that while I had sent the 2016-2018 external borrowing plan to the 8th National Assembly in September 2016, this plan was not approved in its entirety by the legislature. “Only the Federal Government’s emergency project for the northeast, four states’ projects, and one China Exim Bank-assisted railway modernisation project for the Lagos – Ibadan segment were approved out of a total of 39 projects.” On whether the Senate is a rubber stamp, Lawan said the chamber consists of 109 lawmakers, and that as a presiding officer, he merely declares at the end of debate whether proponents or opponents take the day. “Let me take this opportunity to appeal. Judge us by what we do. Judge us by our actions. We have undertaken so many actions so far and the media has been in this journey with us,” he said. He explained that the Senate would not pass into law anything that would be inimical to the general public. According to him, “We would do everything possible to legislate on what will make life better for Nigeria and we have shown the sign so far. We have tried in the Senate to remain united, focused on delivering what is good for Nigerians.” Lawan also described the electoral bill as a priority because of the urgent need to improve the country’s electoral processes and secure democratic gains. He stated: “We want to pass the bill well ahead of the next electoral cycle in 2023 and avoid the political heat and pitfalls that impeded the efforts of the Eighth National Assembly, which was why the same bill crossed to the last general elections. “We are not oblivious about concerns that some of these bills have generated from the public. But we must not forget that lawmaking is a rigorous process that allows for all sides of the arguments to be heard and the true will of the people established before it becomes a law.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .