But for self-restraint, Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State said he would have dethroned the Amanyanabo of Kalabari kingdom, Theophilus Princewill, over a recent visit to his palace by his Bayelsa counterpart, Seriake Dickson. Dickson, whom he accused of creating tension in the state, allegedly embarked on the trip without getting clearance from the appropriate authorities under the guise “of coming to see Ijaw people.” He warned that any such ‘disorder’ in the future would attract sanction. Wike said: “That day, I would have removed him (the monarch), but I held myself.  What they would do is to go to the radio and abuse me. But I am used to insults. I am complaining to you people (reporters) so that you can see how some are trying to divide a state.” He accused the outgoing Bayelsa governor of pretentiously “professing love for Ijaw people in Rivers but yet busy working to take the state’s oil resources in Soku and Kula.” Wike stated: “Already, we have gone back to court in respect of Soku oil wells. This is a man who is claiming Kula and Soku oil wells. This is the same man you claim love you and you roll out drums against protocol.” He cautioned Kalabari leaders to prevail on King Princewill “not to allow himself to be deliberately used by Dickson to promote division in the state.” Wike again castigated the monarch for hosting Dickson “without notifying the relevant authorities in the state.”
He went on: “He (Dickson) said he was coming to see Ijaw people in Rivers State and he would be hosted by the Amayanabo of Kalabari and the Amayanabo of Abonnema. The Amanyanabo of Abonnema called me and said how can that be? The Amanyanabo of Kalabari did not call me. What he did was to roll out drums to receive the Bayelsa State governor.” Wike reiterated that the Kalabari monarch would face “sanctions if he continues acts of division.” He added: “I will not listen to any further excuses, that is why I am saying this publicly.  Tell him to respect constituted authority.  It is not good for anyone to come and divide Rivers State because the state is one. What my colleague did was unfortunate. I hand him over to God for His will to be done.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .