President Alpha Conde of Guinea Conakry; President Faure Gnassingbe of Togo; Nigeria Former Head of State, Gen. Yakubu Gowon; President Muhammadu Buhari; ECOWAS President, Jean Claude Brou; President Mahamadou Issoufou of Niger Republic; President Alassane Ouattarra of Cote D’Ivoire and other Heads of Governments, during the 55th Ordinary Session of the Authority of Heads of State and Government of the ECOWAS in Abuja…yesterday PHOTO: NAN President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, urged leaders of the West African sub-region to adopt measures that would improve its economy and end insecurity. He spoke at the 56th Ordinary Session of the ECOWAS Authority of the Heads of State and Government, which held at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. He said: “Let me restate Nigeria’s commitment to regional integration and stress the need to always channel our energies towards realising new strategies and initiatives, which will accelerate the attainment of our regional aspirations for sustainable peace, security, stability and inclusive economic growth.” To achieve these, he noted that the leaders must put the people at the heart of their policies. He noted that terrorism remains the major threat to the region’s peace and progress. He said: “Attempts by terrorist groups remind the sub-region of the urgency to build an enduring security partnership to confront and defeat the evil of cross-border terrorism. It is always gratifying, when our regional bloc comes together in the determination to advance our agenda for regional integration and promote the socioeconomic development of our sub-region…” President of the Republic of Niger and Chairman of ECOWAS Authority of Heads of State and Government, Issoufou Mahamadou, said the creation of a common area of peace, security and economic integration, is the key to the region’s future. He said terrorist attacks continued to test the region’s commitment to fighting the scourge, and that it was incumbent upon the region to respond to all the attacks with firmness and determination. Also speaking, president of the ECOWAS commission, Mr. Jean-Claude Kassi Brou noted that recent terrorist attacks in the region and the thought of the many civilian and military victims will only strengthen the region’s resolve to collectively and effectively fight to eradicate the scourge. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .