Audiomack And Afrochella Promote African Music With Rising Star Initiative. African music continues to gain global attention at an unprecedented rate with stars such as Sarkodie, Burna Boy, Wizkid, Diamond Platnumz, Davido, Shatta Wale, Nasty C and AKA championing the cause, now it is time for up-and-coming African musical talents to have their own share of the spotlight. International music streaming platform Audiomack recently announced a partnership with Afrochella Festival in Ghana. This union birthed the project “Rising Stars” a platform to uncover and promote up-and-coming talent across Africa. Audiomack and Afrochella will work to increase visibility and support for emerging musical talent throughout the continent. Hundreds of African artists submitted their music and portfolio to Audiomack for the chance to perform at Afrochella Festival in Accra, Ghana, alongside a powerhouse lineup on December 28 at El Wak Stadium, Accra, Ghana. Audiomack thereafter launched a curated playlist, Africa Rising, featuring 25 of the best submissions. Audiomack’s user base of over 10M users will vote on a winner, through a combination of streams, favourites, and shares. The artist with the highest engagement will win a $1,000 USD cash prize and a studio session at BBNZ live. The top seven artists will receive a slot to perform onstage at Afrochella Festival! Audiomack will also be sponsoring a panel discussion at Afrochella to promote the visibility of African talent and community empowerment. The panel will be comprised of music and media leaders such as Ivie Ani, Tenille Clarke, Juls (Producer), and more. Commenting on the partnership, Afrochella founder Abdul Karim-Abdullah said; “This partnership is our way of ensuring Africa’s rising stars have an opportunity to maximize their reach; as well as ensure a fair and transparent process for selecting opening acts.” Audiomack CMO and Co-Founder David Ponte; “From day one, we’ve recognized the importance of African music and artists to the rest of the world and to our platform… By investing back into African culture and communities through events like Afrochella, we want to provide exposure and support to talented artists across the continent.” This year marks the third annual Afrochella Festival and the official closing event for Ghana’s Year of Return—a campaign marking the 400 years of the first enslaved African arriving in Jamestown, Virginia. “Rising Stars” is underway now and closes December 17, 2019. Artists can apply and find all information at https://afrochellarisingstar.carrd.co/ Afrochella is a celebration of Africa’s diverse culture and the vibrant work of African creatives & entrepreneurs. The festival is designed to elevate and highlight the thrilling and thriving millennial talent in Africa by introducing an interactive event that teaches, explains and explores various culture with a pioneering approach. Audiomack is a youth-driven, artist-first music streaming platform that allows creators to share unlimited music and podcast content for free, along with tools to help them expand their audiences. Notable releases exclusive to or premiered on Audiomack includes Chance the Rapper’s seminal Acid Rap mixtape, J. Cole’s fabled Truly Yours 1 and 2, Eminem’s eviscerating Machine Gun Kelly diss track KILLSHOT and a series of freestyles from Nicki Minaj. Audiomack currently reaches more than three million daily active users, generating over three billion monthly streams. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .