Samklef | TheNet Nigerian music producer and artiste, Samuel Oguachuba better known by his stage name, Samklef has called out Nobel Laureate, Professor Wole Soyinka. In a picture he shared on his Twitter page, he slammed Soyinka and other political activists who came out during the 2011 Occupy Nigeria protest. According to the music producer, all those spotted during the protest against the then Goodluck Jonathan administration are nowhere to be found in terms of protests against hardship suffered in the current Buhari-led administration. Sharing the photo below, he tweeted: Wole Soyinka alongside other activists | @Samklef “Where all these wash wash men. They all came out during the time of good luck Jonathan. But today they keep quiet dem dey fear 2? yeye occupy.” Samklef’s tweet was met with mixed reactions because while some of his fans believe he is saying the truth, some of his other followers were quick to slam him. Those criticising Samklef said he should also use his celebrity status to influence things as when Soyinka was his age, he was at the forefront of advocating for change. Read some responses that trailed the tweet below: The truth is, not one elderly person in Nigeria have what is called "reputation capital" including the religious leaders. None can command respect across ethnic lines to get things done. Not one.Conquering poverty is the first step. — Bhadmusolatunde (@oladotun04) December 23, 2019  I disagree, all what u said can only happen to him if and only if he continues from where these men stopped..He is a celebrity abi ? Use ur fan base and move to the street — abubakar Mohammed (@abutsowa) December 24, 2019  Is Nigeria really worth dying for? A country that killed MKO in detention? I don’t think so. — Kolawole Akinloye (@akinlo1) December 23, 2019  You just called Wole Soyinka wash wash man, Wole Soyinka has been fighting since 1950’s and still fighting even at 85, Wole Soyinka couldn’t lead a protest anymore at his age . you can start to fight for your own generation as well . Stop the blame game — Oyeyinka (@Rheerxaq) December 23, 2019  In response to the tweet, a certain Femi Adebimpe wrote: “When Soyinka was your age, he went behind enemy line into Biafra to try and stop the Nigerian civil war from happening by talking to the protagonists. And he went to.prison for that.
Tell us the sacrifice you have made for Nigeria outside of hiding behind a twitter account!” Samklef spans several years in the entertainment industry and the outcome is vast experience, which can only be garnered by working with some of the best hands in every field. Samklef has successfully established himself as one of the best producers from West Africa. Samklef is an exemplary singer with a distinct and unique singing style. He released his debut album titled “NONI” in 2010 and recently re-packaged and re-introduced it with an international edition titled “NONILIZING”, released in January 2011.