Adigun Acts 1:14 tells us that while the war in heaven (Rev. 12:5-10) was going on in the spirit world, the apostles were busy praying in the upper room to strengthen the angelic forces of God. It was the routing of the demonic forces in the heaven that opened the way for the coming of the Holy Spirit into the earth realm, and brought forth the former rain revival. This happened exactly fifty days after His death. Remember that Pentecost actually means fiftieth. My God! The church of Jesus in these last hours must also ascend in the Spirit, engage the demonic princes and powers and invisible satanic governments in battle. We must open the way for the deluge of the Holy Spirit that will birth the latter rain revival prophesied in Matt 24:14. Therefore rejoice ye heavens, and ye that dwell in them. Woe to the inhabiters of the earth and of the sea! For the devil is come down unto you, having great wrath, because he knoweth that he hath but a short time (Rev 12:12). The devil is now on earth. He has a mission of vengeance to frustrate the advancement of the Kingdom. He will try every trick in his books. He will even invent new ones to oppose, hinder, antagonise the growth and advancement of God’s Kingdom. For this purpose, he has set up territorial powers, satanic governments and established strongholds in every community, cities and every nation of the world. In order to fulfil destiny, the church needs to change strategy. We need to stop trying to disciple the people without discipling the nations. The battle must be won in the heavenly places before we can win the nations to Christ. Just as the children of Israel left Egypt in a “holy” revival after Pharaoh was humiliated, so will a “Holy” revival break out in every city and every nation of the world, in which the demonic strongmen and demonic Pharaohs have been subdued and humiliated. It is the church’s duty in every city/nation to do this. This is not the work of one denomination. For this job, all denominational walls must come down. We can empty the pub houses, the sex houses, the dark spots, make desolate the shrines of the cities and nations by establishing the authority of the gospel over the area where God has Divinely placed us. One shall chase a thousand and two shall chase ten thousand. Join us for the MIDNIGHT CRY on DOVE TV (DSTV channel 349, GOTV channel 83 and StarTimes channel 464) every Thursday at 7pm and on Rock City 101.9 FM every Sunday at 9pm. For more information please call 08037253604 or 07034495177.
Bro. Kunle Adigun, Friends of the Bridegroom International Ministries (FOBIM)
To Be Continued To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .