Brad Pitt | Fox News “Once Upon A Time in Hollywood” star, Brad Pitt is coming clean with his struggle with alcohol. The film star who opened up to Anthony Hopkins during their conversation for Interview Magazine revealed that he started cleaning up after his ex-wife, Angelina Jolie filed for divorce. He said that he saw alcohol as a disservice to himself and admitted that he felt it was a necessary escape to some degree. However, he revealed that he has learned to accept his ‘embarrassments’ and stay sober. He said: “I’m realising, as a real act of forgiveness for myself for all the choices that I’ve made that I’m not proud of, that I value those missteps, because they led to some wisdom, which led to something else. You can’t have one without the other. I see it as something I’m just now getting my arms around at this time in my life. But I certainly don’t feel like I can take credit for any of it.” He also stressed the positivity in accepting his flaws. “So you’re embracing all your mistakes. You’re saying, “Let’s be our foibles, our embarrassment. There’s beauty in that.’ “I’m seeing that these days. I think we’re living in a time where we’re extremely judgmental and quick to treat people as disposable. We’ve always placed great importance on the mistake. But the next move, what you do after the mistake, is what really defines a person. We’re all going to make mistakes. But what is that next step? We don’t, as a culture, seem to stick around to see what that person’s next step is. And that’s the part I find so much more invigorating and interesting.” In September this year, the “Mr & Mrs Smith” actor told  The New York Times that after Jolie filed for divorce in 2016, he spent nearly two years “freeing” himself from drugs and alcohol. He spent a year and a half in Alcoholics Anonymous, attending meetings where he would open up about his problems. He said: “I had taken things as far as I could take it, so I removed my drinking privileges. You had all these men sitting around being open and honest in a way I have never heard. It was this safe space where there was little judgment, and therefore little judgment of yourself.” He added: “It was actually really freeing just to expose the ugly sides of yourself. There’s great value in that.” He previously said he quit in 2017, telling GQ that he personally couldn’t remember a day “since I got out of college when I wasn’t boozing or had a spliff, or something.” He said that drugs, cigarettes, and alcohol were “pacifiers” to him and that he was ultimately “running from [his] feelings.” There are several reports that Pitt and Jolie’s 12-year-relationship ended after an alleged fight over his drinking. She filed for divorce and sole custody of their six children three years ago. However, they share joint custody with the kids staying with Jolie. Jolie recently revealed that she is unable to move abroad because of Pitt. Speaking about wanting to live abroad, she revealed to Harper’s Bazaar that she ‘would love’ to live abroad at some point in the near  She said: “I would love to live abroad and will do so as my children turn 18. Right now I’m having to base where their father chooses to live.