 Unai Emery. Photo: SBNATION  Sacked Arsenal manager, Unai Emery has held talks with Everton to become the club’s next boss, reports football.london.
The Gunners wielded the ax on Emery following defeat in the Europa League, with Freddie Ljungberg being made interim boss. Meanwhile, Everton sacked Marco Silva after the Toffees were thumped by rivals Liverpool in the Merseyside derby, with Duncan Ferguson taking temporary charge. Arsenal has drawn up a list of 10 managerial candidates to interview to replace Emery, including Patrick Vieira, Massimiliano Allegri, and Mikel Arteta. Everton, on the other hand, already appear to have narrowed their search and are reportedly keen on hiring Emery. According to The Athletic, Toffees chairman Bill Kenwright and majority investor Farhad Moshiri have personally met with Emery in London to discuss the vacant managerial position. Meanwhile, former Chelsea striker, Tony Cascarino has launched a rant towards Arsenal captain Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, accusing him of not being a team player and being lazy. The Gunners skipper scored his 11th Premier League goal of the season during his side’s comeback victory against West Ham, which brought an end to a concerning winless streak. Despite the win, plenty of problems within Arsenal’s side were clear to see and Freddie Ljungberg, or whoever comes into the club, has plenty of work to do. According to Cascarino, one of the first things that should be done is cashing in on Aubameyang, who he believes has demonstrated a poor attitude. “Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang scored last night but he really hurts Arsenal with his poor attitude. People talk about his goal scoring record – and it is very good – but he needs to be a team player,” he told TalkSport. “Last night he was just letting opposing defenders head the ball away without even making a challenge. Along with Mesut Ozil, he is the laziest player in the side. His work ethic for a senior player is bordering on disgusting. “Last week against Brighton he remonstrated with Joe Willock, his young colleague when he should be encouraging him. He would be the first one out of the club if it was up to me.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .