 It’s the holidays, a season to catch up on the latest and old stories that rocked the nation. A lot of controversies dominated the year in the most shocking way possible, upsetting the ideologies of the various school of thoughts in Nigeria. Here is a quick rundown of the most intriguing stories of 2019. Xenophobia Our beloved South Africa turned their backs on us this year. Before we go down to the details, Nigeria is revered by leaders including the late Nelson Mandela and Julius Malema. Some of these hate stems from the allegation that their women are attracted to Nigerian men because *wait for it* they are more romantic and caring, while some were based on the belief that they were ruining businesses, introduced corruption, spiked the rate of drugs, you name it… In return, the embattled founder of AirPeace, Allen Onyeama, took a major step by bringing back his brothers home for free*Whew* Biodun Fatoyinbo And the most controversial pastor this year goes to.. *drums* Biodun Fatoyinbo of the Commonwealth of Zion Assembly (COZA). Shhh, word on the street (and actually in the law court) is that he has been involved in rape. In fact, one of his accusers is celebrity photographer, Bisola Dakolo. Shortly after the case was thrown out of court, he was accused by Davido, Wizkid and Tiwa Savage of using their videos as an endorsement of his church programme this December. It turns out, redeeming his image is another assignment he will have to work around fixing. Gloria Osei Everyone hol’ up! Did you know that there is someone that is richer than Jay Z in Nigeria? Gloria Osei is the name. Gloria Osei, a businesswoman belonging to the motivational speaker sphere, together with her husband, Muyiwa was accused of fraud, manipulation, staff abuse and the list just go on. Interestingly, she expressed her disappointment at the “mob” not supporting her despite admitting to lying to the public. In her defence, she stated that ripping people off their sweat is capitalist behaviour. Did I hear you say, Nothing Wey Musa No Go See For Gate? MI And Vector We need not mention the madness that happened in the music scene this year. Two legends, MI and Vector brought their beef to the fore. With shots coming at each other back to back and bringing their families’ dirty secrets to the public, Nigerians saw the Tupac and Notorious BIG beef come alive. As expected, their fans also took it personally, having conversations about their achievements sometimes backing it up with threats. With the unending revelations, you know who lost their respect in the public space? The elephants fighting, not the grass. ASUU strike Making the list this year (as always) is the ASUU (Academic Staff Union of Universities) strike. Before you count on the number of days this happened, did you know that ASUU strike was the most googled topic this year? The reason, as always, is not far-fetched. The Federal Government and the ASUU body had refused to arrive at an agreement. While the body fights for their institution in the most controversial way (factions against factions), students keep hoping that this unplanned holiday keeps running. Guess who the joke is on. 