Rep cautions youths against alcohol abuse
Bishop urges Christians to shun worldly tendencies Former Deputy President of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu, has called on Nigerians to dedicate the Christmas celebration to loving one another. Ekweremadu, in his goodwill message to the Christian faithful at Christmas, called for the revival of the values of love and unity to move the nation forward. “The core message of Christmas is love as demonstrated by God, who gave his only begotten son, Jesus Christ, to be born as man for our salvation. This season is therefore a call to show unconditional love, for we cannot claim to love God if we do not show love to our fellow men created in the image and likeness of God,” Ekwerwmadu stated. Also, former Enugu State governor, Chimaroke Nnamani (Enugu East), has called for harmony among religious adherents to engender peace and unity in the country. This, he said, is necessary to have a common approach towards addressing underdevelopment in Nigeria. The chairman, Senate Committee on Cooperation and Integration in Africa/NEPAD, in a goodwill message to Nigerians for this year’s Christmas, noted that the time called for unity of purpose towards tackling the issues facing Nigeria. “We need to be on the same page to produce the desired result,” he added.
Member of the House of Representatives, Mr. Emeka Chinedu, has cautioned youths against alcohol and substance abuse, as they make merry at yuletide. Chinedu, in a chat with The Guardian in Abuja yesterday, remarked that it behoves the youths to be cautious in their conduct to avoid bodily harm and untimely death. The lawmaker, who represents Ahiazu/Ezinihitte Mbaise of Imo State in the green chamber of the National Assembly, stressed the need for concerted effort in empowering the teeming population of youths in the country. Bishop of Sabongida-Ora Anglican Diocese, Augustine Ohilebo, has urged Christians to shun tendencies that do not glorify the name of Jesus Christ in the celebration. The cleric, in his Christmas message in Sabongida-Ora, Owan West Council of Edo State, said Christians must not forget the essence Christmas. He enjoined them to use the season to show love to humanity by remembering the poor among them, saying God himself exhibited generosity by giving his only begotten son, Jesus Christ, to save mankind. In a related development, the University of Benin Teaching Hospital (UBTH) held a Christmas party for staff and their children yesterday. The event witnessed large turn-out of staff and students, as well as visit to wards to identify with patients in the spirit of the season. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .