Kano State governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje has appointed Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II as the pioneer chairman of the state council of Chiefs. Governor Ganduje also directed conveyance of inaugural council meeting of the chiefs with immediate effect. The appointment which takes effect from Monday, the 9th Day of December 2019 will last for two years. A statement signed by Ganduje’s spokesman Abba Anwar said the appointment was based on the powers conferred on the Governor, by Sections 4 (2) (g) and Section 5((1) (2) of the Kano State Emirate Councils Law 2019. The council of Chiefs also have the new Four First-Class Emirs of Bichi, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero; Rano, Alhaji Tafida Abubakar (Autan Bawo Rano); Karaye, Alhaji Dr Ibrahim Abubakar II and Gaya, Alhaji Ibrahim Abdulkadir as automatic members of the Council. The State Emirate Council Law 2019 consists of Secretary to the State Government, Commissioner for Local Governments, five Chairmen of Local Government Councils with each from the Local Government Council where the Emir’s palace is situated. Other are Ten Kingmakers, two from each of the Five Emirates and Chief Imam of each Emirate, representative of the Business Community from each Emirate, all to be appointed by the Governor. Governor Ganduje urges all the Council members to utilize the opportunity to serve the people in the state and to strengthen the Emirates and the traditional system of administration in the State in advising the state government, more particularly on security matters. The Guardian gathered that Emir Sanusi may be reluctant to accept the new appointment due to pending legal suit on the emirate at Federal high court. “It may amount to accepting defeat since the court is already in Kano. It is obvious the Emir Sanusi will not accept the appointment for obvious reasons. Again, many may consider the appointment as trap for the emir’s removal,” a source said. “The Governor said inaugural meeting should be conveyed immediate without considering the concern and legal implications. That means, once the emir failed to convey meeting, Ganduje will serve him query and that will be the beginning of his removal.” Justice Usman Na’Abba nullified the earlier Kano Emirs Appointment and Deposition Laws 2019. But the government transmitted fresh bill on the same subject, passed and assented to last week.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .