 Sodimu  The concert will also feature Joe, an American RnB star. Joe’s career has lasted decades and has earned him seven Grammy nominations and an ASCAP award to mention a few. He is the crooner of the hit song, I Wanna Know. Sodimu’s unique method of fusing English, Pidgin and Yoruba, transformed the country’s musical sound and set the foundation for the songs created today. Based in Washington DC and Lagos, Sodimu is a world-class artist, who retains the essence of being an international act. His hit song, Love Me Jeje, Love Me Tender that brought him to limelight is still a hot song to date. His other songs are Money Man, Ayo, Pele Pele and Sophisticated Woman, which featured Wayne Wonder, while his newest single, See My Baby, featuring Wande Cole, was released on Sunday, December 1, 2019. According to the organisers, Grown and Sexy Experience is a concert that celebrates contemporary music, and it features seasoned artists who are influential in the music industry in Africa and around the world. “It promises to be a night to remember with over 25 hits combined, spanning over 15 years, from various artists. 
 
“December in Lagos is such an eventful time; the Grown and Sexy Experience will break the monotony of the season by adding an event that celebrates the music that has been in the fabric of our lives over the years. A night of musical elegance and maturity that features music that transcends age, generations, class, experience and tradition.” Paul Play Dairo, son of the late juju music legend, I.K Dairo, known for his soft and sweet melody, is one of the artists billed to perform at the event. The legendary Nigerian RnB and pop musical group, Style Plus, with group members consisting of Shifi Emoefe, Tunde Akinsanmi, and Zeal Onyecheme will be on stage with their smooth sound, harmonies and lyrical prowess to belch tunes that have established them as one of the most influential groups in the Nigerian music landscape. The Grown and Sexy Experience 2018 was the first time the three were on stage performing together after many years of solo performances.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .