 Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu  The Lagos State government is working to ensure its residents, estimated to be around 21 million, have the infrastructure required to drive connectivity across the state. This, according to the state is expected to improve productivity and boost the populace living standard. Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, disclosed this on Monday, while declaring open this year’s Science Camp at Civil Service Model College, Igbogbo, Ikorodu. Part of the strategy includes the government building metropolitan fibre optic cables, about 6000 kilometers, to deepen broadband penetration in the state. Sanwo-Olu explained that technology is presently ruling the world and only those who can effectively use science and technology have limitless opportunities.“In spite of the daily reduction in employment opportunities globally, technology remains one of the highest sources of paid employment and technological savvy individuals are still sought-after across the world. “As a state, we are committed to providing the infrastructures needed to improve Internet access and connectivity and making Lagos a 21st century economy. We recognise the fact that, this is crucial to improving the productivity of our youths and more importantly, the achievement of our smart city project. “This administration will continue to support science, and create enabling environment through policies and initiatives. The creative thinking capacity of our youths can be expressed and productively harnessed through encouragement, capacity building and maximisation of potentials such as being provided at this camp,” Sanwo-Olu said. Represented on by the Commissioner for Science and Technology, Hakeem Fahm, the governor said the goal of the administration to achieve technological advancement can only be realised if the study of science subject in schools is encouraged. According to him, the administration from inception recognised the importance of science technology and had since incorporated it as part of its policy thrust. He recalled that a few weeks ago, the state government commemorated the World Science Day for Peace and Development highlighting the important role of science in society and the need to engage the wider public in debates on emerging scientific issues. Sanwo-Olu said the initiative aligns with the THEMES agenda of the present administration which calls for inclusive scientific research towards enhancing good governance and improving the skills and knowledge of citizens in making informed decisions “The THEMES Agenda of this administration emphasised the need to equip students with the knowledge and skills for the 21st century and in line with this agenda adequate attention would be given to providing well equipped science laboratories in our schools,” he said. According to him, the major objectives of the camp include developing a solid knowledge base among students and enhancing their interest in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM); strengthening their ability to integrate and apply knowledge and skills; nurturing their creativity, collaboration and problem solving skills; and developing talents/experts in STEM-related areas to foster national development. “This programme is designed to develop students to become lifelong learners of STEM, enabling them to meet the challenges in the 21st century, and from a wider perspective, nurturing versatile talents with different levels of knowledge and skills for enhancing their national and international competitiveness and in so doing contributes to national developments. “I implore you to develop technological skills even as you pursue excellence in your academics, give this Science and Technology Camp programme all the seriousness it deserves and be determined to make a huge difference among your peers. “This programme is no doubt a right step in the right direction as it aims to create the consciousness of technological-know-how in our students and very importantly also is the fact that it aligns with the direction and vision of the present administration in the state,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .