Professor Lillian Imuetinyan Salami yesterday took office as the 10th Vice Chancellor of the University of Benin (UNIBEN), seeking cooperation of staff and students to return the institution to its pride of place. Speaking during the hand-over at the ivory tower’s Ugbowo main campus in Benin City, Edo State, she maintained that all that made the tertiary institution to be addressed in the past as ‘UNIBEST’ must be reinvented. The administrator said: “We must harness our strength through cooperation so that we can take the university to the next level and continue to maintain its pride among the best institutions.“My administration will invest in innovative curriculum and teaching to deliver better ways of providing practical experience to our students. This will ensure that our students are marketable globally and relevant to present and future demands.” Salami promised to give the job her very best, stating that she had done well in all previous appointments.She added: “There is no doubt we have challenges but they are surmountable and I am here to do justice to them. The reasons why we are here is primarily for the students. We would look into accommodation, structure and staff welfare. “We must have a very conducive environment. We cannot produce hoodlums. We need to have an environment that is friendly to students in order for them to learn better.” The don also promised to build on his predecessor’s achievements to make the institution a modern and world-class citadel of learning.Appreciating his predecessor, Prof. Faraday Olunmwense, Salami pledged to match her words with action in a bid to make UNIBEN enviable.Earlier, Prof. Olunmwense, described his successor as a “very proactive and progressive minded person who will take the university to greater heights”, vowing his continued support.He therefore called on the management team to give Prof. Salami all the support she needs to succeed in her new office. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .