Can Rihanna possibly squeeze out time from her busy schedule to record a track with Janet Jackson on her forthcoming album? That is a question we cannot authoritatively answer but what we can tell you is that both music icons were seen huddling up for a rare photo at the British Fashion Awards in London’s Royal Albert Hall yesterday, December 2. 31-year-old Rihanna received her first Fashion Awards accolade and it was presented to her by 53-year-old Janet Jackson who later went on to share the photo of herself and the younger entertainer on Instagram. Speaking about Rihanna as she presented her with the award, Jackson said: “You’re loved for your style, you’re respected as an artist, entrepreneur and for the first black woman to start a brand with LVMH.” The multiple Grammy award-winning Jackson later shared a black-and-white photo of herself and Rihanna to her Instagram writing: Rihanna and Janet Jackson | @JanetJackson “Congratulations .” It wasn’t the award the fans seemed to be concentrating on as they pleaded with the two women to come together for a collaboration. One fan wrote under Jackson’s photo: “OMG!! the two of you is EVERYTHING !!! Duet pls, set the music on .” Another wrote: “Please do a collaboration love u both.” A third fan begged “COLLAB PLZ,” echoing all the other fans who left the same request under Janet’s post. Riri certainly deserves the congratulations as her new Fenty label won the British Fashion Council’s prestigious Urban Luxe award for redefining “new luxe” and “elevating ‘casual’ to high end and directional fashion,” according to The Fashion Awards’ website. We reported earlier that this past May, Rihanna partnered with LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton, a luxury conglomerate that also owns classic power houses like CELINE, Fendi, Christian Dior and Givenchy. Rihanna is not only the first black woman to spearhead a brand under the world’s largest luxury group, but she’s also the first woman ever to boast such an accomplishment! Rihanna’s forthcoming ninth studio album has been one of the most anticipated music albums of 2019 with fans still hoping the unnamed album would still get a 2019 release. It is uncertain when Rihanna will release new music although she  admitted that she’s “working on that ish called Balance” in a Nov. 13 Instagram post. The millionaire singer is also managing her Savage X Fenty lingerie brand and her Fenty Beauty company. Her last abum, Anti that was released in 2016 has now made Billboard history as it has spent over 200 weeks on the Billboard 200 album chart making her the first black woman to do so in the chart’s 61-year history.