Members of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) have expressed concern over the detention of their leader, Sheikh Ibraheem El-Zakzaky, for four years, just as they marked the anniversary of their face-off with soldiers, which led to the death of many in Zaria. In a statement, the Islamic group, which called on the Federal Government to immediately release El-Zakzaky and his wife, said it had taken enough of government’s disobedience of court orders. According to the statement issued by the president of IMN Media Forum, Ibrahim Musa, as the Islamic group marks the fourth anniversary of the Zaria Massacre, the Federal Government should be reminded of the unlawful detention of the Shiites leader and his wife despite the directive by the court to release them. “As we mark the fourth anniversary of this Zaria Genocide, we unequivocally reiterate that enough of this systematic oppression of Sheikh Zakzaky and members of the Islamic movement. We call for the immediate and unconditional release of the Sheikh from this unjustifiable detention, along with all those still in detention on this account,” it stated. The group also called for the prosecution of the military officers involved in the brutal killing of over 1,000 people in Zaria, in line with the recommendation of the judicial commission of inquiry set up by Kaduna State government. “Earlier, the lopsided commission they instituted to cover their tracks could not entirely cover up the gravity of these crimes. The commission had observed the high-handedness of the military, which was not in consonance with their rules of engagement or any known international best practice, and therefore had recommended the trial of the General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the Army’s 1st Division Kaduna, Gen. (Adeniyi) Oyebade, who led the operation, and all other officers who participated in the operation.” “Years after, none of these army officers has been arrested for these heinous crimes and atrocities. It called on the International community, especially the International Criminal Court (ICC) at The Hague and the United Nations to hold the Nigerian government accountable for the crimes. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .