Kaura and Sanga local government areas of Kaduna State on Monday launched the last round of polio immunisation for the year 2019, with a call on residents of the areas to uphold children’s right to proper healthcare. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the integrated launch, which included Maternal and Child Health Care week, took place at Mifi
village in Takad chiefdom in Kaura Local Government and Gwantu in Sanga Local Government Area. Mrs Miriam Katuka, wife of the Caretaker Committee Chairman of the area, urged the people to maintain sanitary standards and clean environments to guarantee good health. Katuka noted that the exercise, which recorded positive strides through the year, would be sustained, adding that “we must put all hands on deck to saveguard
the future of our children. “Children have right to quality healthcare and we want to ensure these rights are secured by ensuring that health workers give priority to routine immunisation.” In a message, the Agwam Takad, Mr Tobias Wada, who was represented by Mr Alphonsus Ngu, told the people to desist from superstitions and instead,
visit health centres for medical attention in the event of ill health. Wada commended the state government over its efforts toward ensuring quality healthcare delivery and urged the people to lend every support necessary. The Director, Primary Health Care, Mrs Rahab Kurmi, appreciated all over what she described as “sustained support to the immunisation exercise over
the years”, and urged the people to sustain the good spirit. Similarly in Sanga Local Government, the wife of the Chairman, Mrs Dorcas Danladi, urged parents to continue to accord the immunisation exercise the attention it deserved. The Director of Primary Health Care Department, Mrs Martha Nom, reminded parents about their responsibility to cater for the health of the family, especially
children and pregnant women. Nom urged the people to endeavor to access the intervention programme on measles and meningitis as this was the last round for the year 2019.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .