Former National Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief John Odigie-Oyegun has cautioned the warring factions in Edo State APC to be careful, urging the party’s leadership, especially President Muhammadu Buhari to wade into the ongoing political supremacy battle between Governor Godwin Obaseki, and the National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, before it is too late. Odigie-Oyegun stated that the two warring personalities are so influential and powerful in Edo politics, such that if the current situation is not properly handled, it could cost APC the state in the next coming governorship election. According to him, though Oshiomhole commands a lot of influence in Edo and he could pull a string, the incumbent governor has garnered unprecedented support and sympathy across the length and breath of the state such that he could easily win the election for APC, if represented next year. He claimed Obaseki’s popularity has gone across party divide.He, however, feared the national headquarters under the control of Oshiomhole might want to adopt direct primary, for manipulation to edge out Obaseki. “If this happens, I foresee a great danger ahead of the party.” Also commenting, a founding member of APC, Prince Tony Momoh said unless the crisis is resolved, the ruling party may lose the state come next year. He further said that the governor risks losing the return ticket too. According to him: “Those fighting with Oshiomhole in Edo APC were nobody in the first instance. It was the national chairman, who through his political influence brought them to limelight. However, politics is about interest and crisis, we are definitely going to resolve it.” Adefuye, who spoke with The Guardian yesterday, expressed worry that the crisis has taken a serious dimension. He cited the example of what happened in Lagos in the 2018 governorship primary where an incumbent governor lost the return ticket “yet the PDP could not take advantage of the situation because it lacked the capacity and the mechanism to do so.” He however pleaded with the warring factions to place the interest of the governed and the party above their personal purposes.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .