The Federal Government yesterday reviewed the National Security Strategy (NSS) to find lasting solutions to terrorism, kidnapping, banditry, militancy, herders- farmers clashes and other security threats. Nigeria’s first NSS was conceived in November 2014 under former President Goodluck Jonathan’s administration to guide, organise and harmonise the nation’s security policies and efforts. Speaking at a one-day stakeholder workshop on Sensitization Session of the National Security Strategy 2019, National Security Adviser (NSA), Maj. Gen. Babagana Monguno (rtd.), said the document highlights the geostrategic environment that encompasses internal threats and the corresponding strategies to tackle them. At the workshop organised by the Office of the National Security Adviser (ONSA) in Abuja, Monguno noted that a nation success was determined by the government’s ability to guide its affairs through planning for review of the past, managing contemporary issues and articulating for the future. Represented by the Director, Policy, and Strategy of ONSA, Aminu Lawal said most contemporary threats identified in the 2014 documents were still potent, adding that some of the threats are now the fast-developing cyberspace environment and advances in technology notably drone technology. Monguno maintained that the strategy underscored the need to address the socio-economic concerns, including corruption (which breeds poverty), unemployment, insecurity, and economic diversification. “It was against this background that the NSS was conceived in 2014 and the document formulated to contend with the challenges. “Besides focusing on the effectiveness of security providers, it incorporates several key issues as a way of ensuring their relevance, public legitimacy, ownership and sustainability, as well as facilitates their implementation, while improving the efficiency of how security is provided. “In this regard, the new notion of National Security under President Muhammadu Buhari administration places emphasis on the people and not the state and is aimed at enhancing the social-well being of the citizens. “To this end, it is imperative to continuously assess the current and future threats in the environment and develop appropriate resilience and capacity to mitigate the challenges,” Monguno stated. Responding, Chairman Review Committee, Olayiwola Lasehinde said the workshop dwelled on providing solutions that would help government tackle the rising insecurity in the country, particularly kidnapping and armed banditry.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .