50 Cent | Getty Images Outspoken international rapper, 50 Cent is known to call out fellow celebrities from time to time and while many may be quick to call him the king of petty, he is known to drop some factual points now and then. The “Get Rich or Die Trying'” crooner is calling out respected media mogul, Oprah Winfrey over her upcoming spill-all documentary on Russell Simmons. The rapper asked why Winfrey is going after Russell Simmons and Michael Jackson and not Harvey Weinstein or Jeffrey Epstein. 50 Cent made it clear he is not in support of the fact that she is about to do an expose on another black man considering she took an active role in the controversial documentary series on Michael Jackson called ‘Leaving Neverland’. The music entertainment entrepreneur shared a photo of Winfrey with her one-time good friend Russell Simmons, who has been accused of sexual assault. He noted that while white men facing similar accusations go unnoticed by her production interests. Winfrey seems to be going after black men. Mandatory Credit: Photo by Themba Hadebe/AP/REX/Shutterstock (10003666g)<br /> Oprah Winfrey during a tribute to Nelson Mandela and promoting gender equality event at University of Johannesburg in Soweto, South Africa, . Winfrey on Thursday delivered a rousing tribute to Nelson Mandela, a century after he was born<br /> Oprah Winfrey, Soweto, South Africa – 29 Nov 2018 In a now-deleted Instagram post, he wrote: “I don’t understand why Oprah is going after black men. No Harvey Weinstein, No Epstein, just Micheal Jackson and Russell Simmons this sh*t is sad. Gale hit R Kelly with the death-blow documentary. Every time I hear Micheal Jackson, I don’t know whether to dance or think about the little boy’s butts. These documentary’s are publicly convicting their targets, it makes them guilty till proven innocent.” In another post, he shared a photo of powerful black men and powerful white men who have been accused of sexual assault and have been known to be affiliated with Winfrey. 50 Cent pointed out that the black men were sent to jail while the White men are still free. He wrote: “You think Oprah don’t notice how this shit is playing out?” Following the success of Lifetime’s documentary on R Kelly’s various sexual assault victims, titled ‘Surviving R Kelly’, Winfrey is working on bringing a similar tell-tale documentary about survivors of Simmons’ sexual assault, an issue that had made headlines two years ago, during the bloom of the #MeToo movement. In 2008, 50 Cent had seemingly dissed Oprah in an interview with The Associated Press. He complained that she rarely invites rappers on her talk show: “I think she caters to older white women.”