… Calls for national policy on rubber plantation National Rubber Producers, Processors and Marketers Association of Nigeria (NARPPMAN), has said the body would create 640,000 job opportunities for people in Nigeria as part of its 10-year target in the rubber industry. The National President of the body, Peter Igbinosun, disclosed this at the inauguration of the newly-elected executives of NARPPMAN in Owerri, recently. He decried the neglect the industry had suffered over time, and called for a national policy that would, among other things, encourage investors, and promote development and marketing of rubber products in Nigeria. Igbinosun said, “There is a need to have a national policy on rubber in this sub-sector. We appeal to the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, and other concerned stakeholders to consider this request and give it the required attention needed.” He disclosed that NARPPMAN also plans, “to revive the rubber sector and its value chain in the six geopolitical zones in Nigeria, by establishing and replanting 160 hectares of rubber plantations in 10 years. “To employ 640,000 people directly involved in the plantation project, and provide the planting materials for the period between 2020/2030 to plant and replant 160,000 hectares.“This project in Imo State will employ 30,000 people directly involved in the farming activities, and 50 others on direct contract and service provision.” Also, the association’s National Assistant Secretary, Nnenna Aladum, said, “The rubber sector if properly harnessed can serve as alternative to oil and greatly boast the economy of this nation. This is aside creating massive employment opportunities and reducing poverty rate considerably.” Speaking on behalf of the newly-elected executive, the Chairman, Donatus Emedoro, promised to live up expectations in ensuring that the goals and targets of the national body were achieved in the state.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .