Owing to the incessant gas explosion in Lagos State, the House of Assembly has called for proper regulation and monitoring of Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) vending in the state. The house made the resolution after a motion moved by Lukman Olumo, representing Ajeromi/Ifelodun Constituency 1, during plenary yesterday.Olumo stated in the motion that it was important to regulate sales of LPG in residential areas of the state to curb the explosion. The lawmakers then resolved to call on the environment and water resources commissioners as well as the General Manager of the Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency (LASEPA) to enforce the necessary laws on the issue. “The Commissioner for Energy and Mineral Resources should ensure that licences are given to the sellers of gas in the state. The Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) should give approval on the location of gas stations. “The government should ensure that the cylinders imported into the country conform with the right standard,” he said.The Assembly also called on the Commissioner for Information to embark on aggressive sensitisation on the proliferation of gas sales outlets in the state, use of mobile phones around gas stations and handling of gas cylinders. The motion was seconded by Noheem Adams before it was later supported by all the members in attendance after a voice vote by the deputy speaker, Wasiu Eshinlokun-Sanni, who stood in for the speaker, Mudashiru Obasa. In his contribution, David Setonji (Badagry 2) said that his community had been a victim of gas explosion.Noting that about six people died during the explosion in Badagry, he called on the government to do something about it, adding that the explosion is usually caused by high temperature. Also, Olayiwola Sobur (Mushin 2) emphasised that LASEPA must do something urgently about the matter, since there were legal framework on the issue.
This was corroborated by Tunde Braimoh (Kosofe 2), who called for sensitisation of residents on the usage of gas in their homes.Kehinde Joseph (Alimosho 2) advised that the government should prohibit sale of gas in residential areas to avoid disaster. Chief Whip of the House, Rotimi Abiru, stated that everything had to do with regulation as there were different kinds of gases.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .