PHOTO: FACEBOOK The wife of the pastor of Redeemed Christian Church of God who died in a Spanish resort pool along with two children is taking legal action against the operators of the resort. Her husband Gabriel and son Praise-Emmanuel jumped into the pool at Club La Costa World resort where they were holidaying to help her daughter Comfort who ran into trouble in the pool. Spanish police said none of the three knew how to swim very well. But Olubunmi Diya said her husband and children could still be alive if all was okay with the pool and has hired a Spanish lawyer to help sue the resort. “I believe something was wrong with the pool that must have made swimming difficult for them at that point in time,’ Mrs Diya said in a statement to UK’s Sky News. “The whole family, all five of us went to the pool together and were all present when the incident occurred. “The children were not left unattended. We followed the instructions displayed by the poolside at all times. ‘The children went into the pool using the steps but found themselves dragged into the middle, which was deeper and called for help when they could not get out. “My daughter did not fall into the water. My husband went in via the steps trying to help the two struggling while I ran to the nearby apartments shouting for help to assist my husband. By the time assistance came, the three of them were under the water.” PHOTO: FACEBOOK Multiple reports in Sur, a local Spanish publication, and New York Post suggested that the Diyas might have been sucked to their death by a malfunction pool suction. Moreover, the swimming cap of 9-year-old Comfort was found in the pool’s pump system. The operator of the resort CLC World Resorts and Hotels, however, denied that a malfunction led to the deaths, referencing a police report which exonerated the resort from any wrongdoing. “(The report) makes it clear that their exhaustive investigations have confirmed the pool was working normally and there was no malfunction of any kind,’ they said. “The police report containing full findings has been passed to us and also made public by the police. “Our sympathies remain with the family at what we understand must be a stressful and desperately upsetting time for them.”