Andrew Dunbar | Image: Daily Mail UK Games of Thrones actor Andrew Dunbar passed away suddenly at his east Belfast home on Christmas Eve. He was in his 30s. Dunbar acted as a double for villainous character Theon Greyjoy in fantasy hit Game of Thrones, as well as featuring as an extra throughout a number of seasons of the HBO show. The Extras Dept, who worked with Andrew, posted a statement about his death: “We have so many fond memories of the years Andrew worked with us. He was so versatile we could cast him in anything, he was such a talented performer he would always end up being featured, and he was so adored that he was always requested by productions again and again. “He’ll be remembered in his roles as a Stark and Theon Greyjoy’s double on Game of Thrones, a corrupt Police Officer on Line of Duty, the poor fella cornered by Colum on Derry Girls, and a Rebel on Krypton to name a few. But most of all he’ll be remembered by his kind soul and infectious personality. “Thank you for all you did for us Andrew. We will miss you dearly.” Andrew Dunbar | Image: Daily Mail UK Fellow actor and friend Andy McClay, paid his tribute: “Everyone always wanted Andrew. There was just something about him that was special. People always felt good around him, happy, excited for the day’s work and there was always a lot of fun when he was around. “He did a lot of different things, including working as a Game of Thrones tour guide which he was brilliant at. He could have made it as a professional actor but he really wanted to do his art and DJ. “The acting was special to him but it was mostly for fun and although he’d a lot of talent, when people told him to go professional, he just laughed and said he was happy as he was. “His DJ sets were amazing and when he did one set for Game of Thrones, he ended up doing them all for the end of season parties. “I always thought Andrew lived in the moment and he always looked out for everyone else, including me. After a challenging day or crappy weather, or difficult times, he’d make you stop and talk it out. “So when I heard he’d died suddenly on Christmas Eve, it just broke me. I’ll never make any sense of it. He was a true person, a talent, kind and decent man and he had a full and good heart. “I’ve cried and cried since I heard – my friend is gone and my heart is broken.” Dunbar also worked on hit TV shows such as Line Of Duty and Derry Girls during his career. Dunbar’s funeral will be held at Ballywillan Presbyterian Church in Portrush on Monday.