• We Never Sponsored Thugs To Harass Usman, Says OMSL
Managing Director of the Nigerian Ports Authority, Hadiza Bala Usman, has called for the investigation and prosecution of perpetrators of the harassment and humiliation she was subjected to by people believed to be hirelings of Chairman of Ocean Maritime Solutions Limited (OMSL), Idahosa Okunbor at the National Assembly on Tuesday. The management of Ocean Marine Solutions Limited (OMSL) has however debunked any knowledge or involvement in the attack. Usman, in a petition addressed to the Inspector General of Police, President of the Senate and Director-General of the DSS, explained that she was at the senate on the said date to honour the invitation of the Joint Committee on Navy, Marine Transport and Finance to its public hearing on the Safe Anchorage Area of the Lagos Ports. This followed a motion on “illegal security activities by OMSL at the Safe Anchorage Area of Lagos Ports and the need to investigate their excesses,” moved by Senator George Sekibo during the senate plenary on November 7, 2019.  She explained that the committee had invited other parties, which included the Navy and OMSL. “On leaving the room, some hoodlums that accompanied Okunbo to the hearing ambushed me at the exit door and tried to push their way towards me to attack me, raining abuses on me that I was taking food away from them and their boss and that they will find and destroy me.” She explained that it took the efforts of her security detail and the Executive Director, Marine and Operations Dr. Sekonte Davies of NPA and security personnel deployed from the office of the Deputy Senate President for her and her entourage to leave the premises unhurt. While calling for the full investigation with the intent of bringing the culprits to book, she said she takes direct threats to her life seriously, informing the Police IG, the DG, DSS as well as all Nigerians that Idahosa Wells Okunbo be held responsible if any harm should befall her or her family. Reacting, Chuma Adogu (rtd) said the allegations are false and a figment of her imagination, saying Osunboh, couldn’t have sponsored thugs to attack Usman. Adogu, who is the General Manager of Business Development and Government Relations of OMLS noted that on that Tuesday there was no any sign of any attack or rented crowd in the premises of the National Assembly that could warrant such allegation. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .