The All Progressives Congress (APC) has applauded the Appeal Court judgment affirming the candidature of Senator Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo as deputy governor-elect in the November 16,2019 gubernatorial election in Bayelsa State The decision upturned the ruling of the Federal High Court, Abuja that earlier disqualified Degi-Eremienyo from participating in the contest. Justice Iyang Ekwo had on November 12 disqualified the lawmaker for allegedly supplying false information to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as part of requirements for the contest. But the party’s Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena, in a chat with reporters in Abuja, thanked the people of Bayelsa State for their “dogged and unflinching support for the APC and its governor- and deputy governor-elect despite the Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) underhand tactics to steal their mandate and rubbish the electioneering process.” He claimed: “Governor Seriake Dickson and the PDP tried all their dirty tricks and illegalities, including frivolous court actions, violence, election rigging, vote buying and voter intimidation to manipulate the electioneering process. The Bayelsa electorate stood firm and the will of the people prevailed. “Going by Monday’s (yesterday) ruling by the three-member panel chaired by Justice Stephen Adah, the legal action undertaken by the PDP was a clear case of abuse of court processes. The PDP knew ab initio that they had no case but insisted on taking everyone on a wild goose chase. That is the beauty of democracy and the rule of law. The PDP has had its opportunity to see through its case, however baseless. “We can now look forward to the handover date when Bayelsa will be rescued from the failed administration of Governor Seriake Dickson and the PDP. Bayelsans can also now look forward to the administration of Governor-elect David Lyon which will usher in pro-people programmes and also support and consolidate on President Muhammadu Buhari’s developmental and Next Level agenda for Bayelsa State.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .