 Teni rocking Ebube during the concert  The self-proclaimed Sugar Mummy, alongside colleagues in the industry, thrilled fans and other guests with doses of her hit songs. The funny, witty and likeable singer injected her humorous side on the stage as she dished out series of skits during her performances. Organized by S&S Entertainment in partnership with Bet9ja, the concert which was graced by some of Nigeria’s A list celebrities including Wizkid, Tiwa Savage, Toke Makinwa, MC Galaxy among others, was loaded with excitement. Teni, who made a regal entrance onto the stage at exactly 12:03 am on Tuesday, December 17, didn’t only give guests value for their money; she made cynics nod in endorsement, as slayed in white agbada, bearing a walking stick on her right hand and a horsetail on the left. To herald her entrance, a voice delivered panegyrics in Ondo dialect, before a selected group of beautiful women dressed as handmaidens ushered in as King-Queen. As if the panegyrics got her feel, Teni walked onto the stage to see her mother, sisters, secondary school friends and other members of her family who were seated in the front row. Telling a short story about how she thought she might never make it, she burst into the classic Yoruba Christian tune, Ona Ara, to show her gratitude to God. She got fans and guests sing along as she opened her performance with the critically acclaimed Uyo Meyo, and back up by a band that was in sync with her. What may be considered the biggest draw of the night was when the Billionaire crooner brought on stage a fan name Ebube/Bond, who she in what the social media once brandished ‘sexual harassment’ pulled off his shirt, while performing Your Case. He became Teni’s lover for the night as her presumed ‘lover,’ Wizkid watched on in seeming excitement. It will recall that over the past one year, social media had criticized the singer’s performances, even some slammed her for ‘sexual harassment’ of men she calls on stage. Another major highlight of the event was when Teni dressed in military camouflage and joined by an Army band to perform some of her songs as well as the Nigerian national anthem. She signed out from the stage with Fargin another hit from her, which she dedicated to Lagos before abdicating the stage for Ryan, Hotkid, Nikita, who are new signees from her label, Dr. Dolor Entertainment. Other acts that performed at the event include Zlatan Ibile, Tiwa Savage, Korede Bello, Falz, DJ Neptune, Reekado Banks, Mayorkun, T-Classic, Skibii, and Blaqbonez. Wizkid entered the hall at exactly 1:29am, while frica’s number one bad girl, Tiwa Savage made her entry at about 1:46am. This got many curious. Though Wizkid didn’t perform at the event, he sat in the audience alongside 2019 BBNaija housemate, Avala, Seyi Sodimu and Joeboy to cheer on and support Teni all through the show. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .