Pupils of All Saints Anglican Primary School, Yaba Lagos at the unveiling of the ICT hub To elevate the quality of education in the country and cause societal development, SAP Nigeria recently donated a 16-seater ICT hub, dictionaries, garden flowers, among others, to All Saints Anglican Primary School, Yaba Lagos. The ICT hub, which is well equipped with every necessary facilities including powering generator set, will in turn serve six other schools within the district. Prior to the unveiling of the ICT hub, SAP Nigeria’s employees volunteered to beautify the school environment through landscaping and signage, rebuilding parts of the fence, provided a 5.8 KVA generator, sand-filled the play area for children as it was upgraded from a mere mud-filled space to one where children could play with their peers and they also secured the premises with a befitting gate. SAP West Africa’s Marketing Manager, Juliet Omorodion, who said the project was executed in partnership with Ayeci Africa as a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), noted. “Our objective of delivering the gift of literacy to pupils across the country is in line with the governments objective to introduce digital skills within the educational system. So having donated the ICT hub, we have also made provision to ensure that activities will be on-going at the facility. The students and their teachers would be taught coding and robotics by Coderina within a period of two years, so they can also teach others. There is need to continue teaching digital skills to children,” she said. Founder, Ayeci Africa (AA), Ifeoma Adibe-Chukwuka, said: “AA facilitates educational intervention for indigent students especially as the next generation of jobs will be ICT driven.” Director of partnership and engagement Coderina, Akiniyi Obaede said: “We will teach coding and robotics to children and within an hour, they would have understood it and even create their own games. Mrs Linda Umanah who represented the Educational Secretary for Lagos mainland, said the donation was welcome in this age of smart technology. “We hope that other organisations replicate this laudable initiative put forward by SAP Nigeria.” The Head Teacher of the school, Mrs A.O Sonaike, expressed optimism in the future of the project, stating that the students would benefit from practical computer classes. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .