Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State, has tasked the coalition of Northern States Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NSCCIMA), relies on unlocking economic and industrial opportunities in the North. Buni disclosedrecently, while hosting the 38th Annual General Meeting of NSCCIMA at the Government House, Damaturu, the state capital. He said the 19-state chamber, which includes the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, is largest regional OPS. “It is also the biggest business assemblage, which has specific interest in Northern Nigeria, established 38 years ago with its headquarters in Kaduna, Kaduna state,” he said. According to him, NSCCIMA seeks to promote the growth of OPS in North and accelerate to sustain economic growth and development. He said that 17 economic chambers will also provide platforms to articulate the business interest of northern Nigeria. He said the business interests comprise; “Initiating, supporting or opposing legislative, executive or judicial actions in furtherance of business interest in the region.” Buni, who was represented by the Commissioner of Commerce, Trade and Industry, Barma Shettima, said the economic vision of state is geared towards industrialisation for self-sustenance.
He said this can be realised through the revitalisation of decade long dormant industries along with agricultural revolution. His words: “This visit will no doubt afford us the opportunity to discuss matters aimed at cementing the already existing cordial relationship and partnership between the Coalition and Yobe State Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture. “It will also avail us a window of exploring avenues geared towards promoting the resources and potentials that our State is blessed with.” Harnessing the resources will revitalize economic and other business activities in partnership with all stakeholders represented here today.” He Continued: “With today’s visit of the Coalition of Northern Chamber of Commerce and the State Chamber of Commerce and the Organised Private Sector (OPS), we will open a new chapter towards re-invigoration and re-focusing our priorities. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .