Sean “Diddy” Combs To Recieve Icon Awards At Grammy 2020 | Image: Los Angeles Times American rapper and hip-hop mogul Sean “Diddy” Combs will be honoured with the 2020 Grammy Salute to Industry Icons award during the annual pre-Grammys party next month. Recording Academy announced today that the three-time Grammy winner will be honoured for his “continuous influence on the music industry and beyond”. President/CEO of the Recording Academy Deborah Dugan praised Combs: “For nearly three decades, Diddy has fused his boundless creativity and sharp entrepreneurial spirit to create timeless art and build brands and institutions that have shifted our global music culture. “By bringing the music and lifestyle of East Coast hip-hop to the masses, he was an early reminder of music’s unifying ability to flip our perceptions and broaden our connections to all corners of the world. Over the years, Diddy has persistently empowered other music creators and we’re honoured to celebrate his culture-shaping impact at this year’s Pre-Grammy Gala.” Clive Davis, co-host of the Pre-Grammy Gala, and whose Arista Records was a distributor of Combs’ Bad Boy Records during its 1990s heyday: “It’s personally so gratifying that Sean “Puffy” Combs is this year’s icon. He fully deserves this wonderful recognition. “From his past innovative and creative contributions right from the very inception of the hip hop revolution, to his many memorable appearances at the Pre Grammy Gala as both speaker and performer, it’s all come full circle. I couldn’t be happier for Sean as a dear friend and colleague.” Past recipients of the prestigious Icon award include Herb Alpert & Jerry Moss, Irving Azoff, Martin Bandier, Sir Richard Branson, Ahmet Ertegun, David Geffen, Berry Gordy, Lucian Grainge, Jay-Z and the 2019 honoree, Clarence Avant. Combs started his career as an intern at Uptown Records, which began his journey to creating his own label, Bad Boy Records. After making his name with Mary J. Blige’s 1992 debut album, “What’s the 411?,” at Uptown and Notorious B.I.G.’s legendary “Ready to Die” album at Bad Boy, he has gone on to work with Mariah Carey, Method Man, Boyz II Men, Lil’ Kim and launch a career that reaches far beyond the music world. As an actor and executive producer in film, television and on Broadway, his cultural influence expands to his digital cable network Revolt and its experiential development initiatives, including the Revolt Summit. He also works in the philanthropic and political spheres with Capital Preparatory Harlem Charter School, helping fulfil his commitment to supporting education and empowering future leaders.