From left pastor segun Philip, the boy friend Adeeko owolabi and his mother Mrs Adeeko A mother and her son have been arrested by Nigeria Police Force for the murder of final year Theatre Arts student of Lagos State University (LASU), Miss Favour Daley-Oladele. The mother, Mrs Adeeko and her son, Owolabi Adeeko, lured Favour from Lagos State to Osun State, where she was murdered and some of her body parts were dismembered. Ogun State police spokesman in a statement said Favour was declared missing at the Mowe police station on December 8 and that detectives went into full scale technical and forensic investigation of the case. Through the police investigation, Favour was traced to a white garment church in far away Ikoyi-Ile in Osun State. The church was pastored by one Segun Philip. “On getting to the church, the self acclaimed pastor was promptly arrested but he was quick to inform the detectives that the girl was brought to him by her boyfriend Adeeko Owolabi who was still within the vicinity of the church,” DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi said in the statement, adding that “the said boyfriend was traced and apprehended immediately.” “When asked what pushed him to such devilish act, Owolabi explained that he decided to go into money ritual because things are not going well with his parents economically most especially his mother who used to be the breadwinner of the family; and when he sought for assistance from the pastor, he was asked to bring a human being for that purpose and the available person at that time was his girlfriend.” The ritualist boyfriend confessed to the police “that that while the girl was sleeping, the pastor gave him a pestle with which he used to smashed Favour’s head and the pastor quickly used a knife to cut off her neck, ripped open her chest and removed her heart which he used in preparing a concoction for him and his mother to eat.” Police authorities described the gruesome murder of the deceased as “superlative degree of wickedness” and vowed to ensure that all the suspects face the full wrath of the law. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .