A landlord, Victor Kanaychukwu Ani, has dragged the Udi local government chapter of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) to court over two years rent arrears owed him by the party. Ani, who filed the case with suit No. MUD\85\2019 at the Magistrate court (2) Udi, presided over by Ngozi Oruraa, through his lawyer, Emeka Okologbu-Njoku, claimed that the party was owing to him two years arrears of rent. He said the debt was incurred by the party for a one office space apartment for the purposes of running its Udi local government area secretariat situated at old Nsukka road, 9th mile Corner, Ngwo area of the state. The Udi council chapter area of the party has top former and serving government functionaries, such as Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, National Vice chairman of APC, Chief Emma Enukwu, Director-General of Voice of Nigeria (VON), Osita Okechukwu, immediate past governor of the state, Sullivan Chime, an aide to President Muhammadu Buhari, Juliet Ibekaku, amongst others as members. A copy of the suit and summons obtained by our correspondent has the Udi council Area chairman of APC, Jude Anyadibe, as a defendant. The suit indicates that the office space was let out to the party at the cost of 35,000 (thirty-five thousand Naira) per month, which amounts to N420, 000 four hundred and twenty thousand yearly, bringing the debt to N840, 000, (eight hundred and forty thousand naira) for the two years being owed. Ani stated that he had earlier handed down a quit notice to the APC but it refused to obey the quit notice. The landlord said there was no option than to approach the court with a view to taking possession of his property. Udi council chairman of APC, Anyadibe, declined comments on the matter. Also, efforts to speak with the Enugu West senatorial district zonal Vice-chairman of the party, Engineer Ik Omenkeuku proved abortive. No date has been fixed for the case.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .