 Kunle Awobodu  Awobodu explained that with the new Lagos State building regulations, which stipulate that builders should manage the production process of buildings, there is need for practical training after academic training, so that graduates can manage building production process appropriately to avoid collapse. Represented by the Institute’s third Vice President, Bimbo Kolade, he stated that the induction, was to enable the fresh graduates stay focused by introducing them to building practice, avoid deviation into areas they were not trained to practise, mentor them and see how they can be gainfully employed to reduce the high rate of unemployment and criminality in the society. Awobodu pointed out that the campaign was to see that knowledgeable building graduates are admitted into the profession and given advanced practical training. He charged the inductees to comply with the required diligence towards their responsibilities and commended the management of the universities for their indispensable roles in training the students to a reputable status. The chairman, Nigerian Institute of Building, Osun state, Olusola Ajao, who spoke on “Innovative entrepreneurship opportunities for building graduates towards sustainable national economic development”, emphasised that there are a lot of opportunities for graduate builders as they could be involved in constructions, consultancy, building material production processes, metal fabrication, furniture making, quarry works concrete production batching, block-making, concrete paving and electricity concrete pole production. Other opportunities,  he stated include, building/construction material supplies, general contracting, properties development, equipment leasing, and real estates. He also advised them to give consideration for whatever job opportunities available in their local community or area of abode. The Registrar of the NIOB, Mrs. Fatimoh Osho urged the inductees to be focused and make adequate preparation for the institute’s examination and interview, which are usually strict.On his part, the Head of building department, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Dr. Bolaji Wahab said the induction would foster relevance of building graduates in the construction industry, prevent their derailment into other sectors and accelerate their registration as professional builders. “The attainment of full registration as professional builders with the Council of Registered Builders of Nigeria (CORBON) which this induction programme would facilitate shall be useful in adding to the number of registered builders required in both public and private sectors of the economy nationally and internationally. The theme of the induction ceremony, “Innovative entrepreneurship opportunities for building graduates towards sustainable national economic development”, is equally timely. It will allow building graduates to look outside the box, address problems in the built environment and be prepared to be future leaders that can drive the economy of the country forward”, he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .