 Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa. Photo: TWITTER/AIOKOWA  The group insisted that it was wrong for Nunieh to make such insinuation in her attempt to stay put in office. In a statement issued by the convener of the NDPA, Comrade Seiyefa Opuowei, he said, “The usurpers in the interim management committee were trying to sell a false narrative to justify their agenda to remain in office. “Nothing can be more revealing than the statements credited to Nunieh, who decided to throw herself into the succession politics, contrary to what we were made to believe was a temporary assignment for her committee. “In reaction to Senate stance, Nunieh was quoted as saying that the NDDC Act was clear on the Commission’s chairman, saying that after Cross River and Delta states were supposed to produce Chairman of the NDDC board.” Opuowei said Nunieh’s comment was aimed at selling the story that it was Rivers State’s turn to produce the MD and to convince members of the public that the MD’s nomination of NDDC from Delta State was misplaced. Insisting that Delta State was entitled to both positions, the NDPA said it was the state’s prerogative to choose which of the two positions it preferred, adding that was what the stakeholders did in choosing the MD’s position since both may not be allowed due to governance issues. “Having chosen the MD’s position, this was communicated to the presidency on which basis a nominee from the state was presented for the position. Following Delta State’s preference for the MD position, it ceded the chairmanship and Edo State, being the next in line, was asked to nominate someone for the position,” the statement added. The group also noted that it was the settled position that produced the current board members, which President Muhammadu Buhari presented to the Senate and were confirmed. “Everything was done in accordance with the law, equity, due process and in line with good governance principles. Therefore, the false interpretation of the law being canvassed by Nunieh is fraudulent, dubious and unfortunate. “The NDDC Act states clearly that the MD position was to commence with the state with the highest production then as of 2001, which was Delta State and rotate subsequently. “That was why Delta produced the first MD in the person of Godwin Omene. That rotation came full circle with the position going from Delta to Bayelsa, Rivers and Akwa Ibom State in the last four substantive boards,” the statement further reads. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .