Less than two days after Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife, lost a professor of Paediatrics, Jerome Elusiyan, to the whims unknown gunmen, another lecturer has been hacked down. Dr. Victoria Adeniyi, who was the acting head, Department of Dramatic Arts, was yesterday murdered in cold blood. A release by the Public Relations Officer (PRO) of OAU, Abiodun Olarewaju, stated that the deceased lecturer, who directed this year’s convocation play four days ago, was also part of the academic procession of the grand finale of the University’s 44th Convocation yesterday. “It is too painful for us as a university to tearfully break the unpalatable news of the demise of another promising academic and a prominent member of OAU community,” he said. The Vice Chancellor, Professor Eyitope Ogunbodede, had visited the university’s teaching hospital and directed that necessary papers be filled for the conduct of a post-mortem. Similarly, there was panic at a section of Ikere Ekiti, the second largest town in Ekiti State on Saturday, as unknown gunmen killed a guard working with a company in the town. It was reliably gathered that the incident occurred in the night at a quarry along Ikere-Iju-Akure road, when the bandits invaded the firm to steal some valuables. About three guards were stationed at the quarry for more than six months. Narrating his ordeal, one of the night guards, who craved anonymity, said the assailants came at the dead of the night. “The robbers shot the leader of the team from the window while the other one was tied with rope. “Electric cables and other facilities in the quarry were carted away by the suspected robbers,” he said. When contacted, the commandant of the vigilance group in Ekiti, Mr. Akin Olounloni, confirmed the incident, but claimed that suspected cultists killed the guard. He explained that the deceased had earlier called him to report that some cultists threatened to kill him after he reprimanded them. According to him, the cultists have been arrested and are currently with the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS). The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Ekiti Command, Sunday Abutu, could not be reached for comment, as his mobile phone was switched off. But SARS Commander in Ekiti, Marcus Ogundola, confirmed that three suspects had been arrested in connection with the crime. “We have arrested three suspects, but investigation is still ongoing. We cannot say for now whether they were the real perpetrators, but we are thoroughly digging into the killing,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .