Operatives of Kano Police Command have arrested two suspected kidnappers after abducting an 11 years old boy and buried him alive. Speaking to journalists at the Bompai Police headquarters on Monday, Kano Commissioner of Police, Habu Sani disclosed that the 11-year-old victim Ali Mohammed was kidnapped at Kwana Hudu Quarters in Kano and taken to an undisclosed area in Kaduna state. The suspects had collected a ransom to release the boy, according to Sani. The CP said that the special anti-kidnapping squad of the command trailed the suspects, one Aminu Suleiman, 29 and Abdulrahid Ishaq, 32, down to their hideout in Kaduna after an intelligence report. According to the CP Habu, the lifeless body of the innocent victim was discovered buried at an uncompleted building at Wase Village, Minjibir Kano. Also, seven notorious kidnappers and cattle rustlers were also intercepted with four AK47 rifles, two pairs of army camouflage uniforms and 500 stolen Cows. Police boss said, 173 suspected criminals were arrested including 13 armed robbers, 10 cattle rustlers and 26 human traffickers and for other crimes in the last one month. According to him, “a notorious kidnapper and armed robber by name Aliyu Mohammed of Diga, of Kumbotso local government area of Kano, was napped along Falgore Forest and he has confessed to have kidnapped and robbed over 400 persons. “Our men also intercepted seven security guard for criminal conspiracy and theft in a warehouse located at Sabon Gari area of Kano. They were found stolen 570 motor vehicle tyres valued at N15 million. A large quantity of dried leaves suspected to be Indian hemp and other assorted illicit drugs were equally recovered”. Sani said suspected kidnappers of nine children in Kano have been charged to court. He disclosed that the state attorney general and commissioner for justice of Kano state has directed immediate prosecution of the case.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .