• Man survives as SUV skids off bridge into drainage
The Ogun State command of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) yesterday said three persons died while four others sustained injuries in an accident that happened around Kara Market on Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. The state Sector Commander, Clement Oladele, said the accident occurred at about 11:00p.m. on Tuesday. The sector commander said a Mazda bus, with registration number JJJ-417-XX, lost control due to speeding and in the process, somersaulted into the bush. According to him, 14 people, comprising eight male adults, four female adults and two female children, were in the bus. Oladele added that two female adults and a female child died, while four others sustained various degrees of injuries. Meanwhile, a young man yesterday miraculously survived a lone car crash in the Isheri-Oshun area of Lagos State. Residents woke up to witness a scenario reminiscent of the United State of America’s legendary James Bond series when a V6 Toyota Highlander sports utility van (SUV) with plate number, MUS 701 CZ, skidded off the bridge linking Jakande Estate, Oke-Afa, Bucknor, Isheri-Oshun and Ijegun communities in Lagos at the Isheri-Oshun end of the facility and flew into the drainage directly facing Ade-Ojo Street. The settlement had about this time last year experienced a bloody mishap that claimed a tricyclist and passengers after a private car flew from his lane to the other side on same bridge The driver of the crash, in his late 30s and who refused to identify himself, in a chat with The Guardian attributed the accident to brake failure. The young man, whom a source identified as a ‘mechanic’, was the only occupant and came out of the badly damaged vehicle without noticeable bruises. But a commercial tricycle operator, who craved anonymity, faulted the driver, saying he was displeased with the speed level applied by the victim, especially the “hurried manner he pulled the brakes at the traffic lights in between Olat Deen and NNPC filling stations at Isheri-Oshun.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .