Pineapple and pineapple juice | Buzz Noble Considered a miraculous fruit by many thanks to its many amazing health benefits, pineapple is both delicious and packing in nutrients good for your body. Once you are able to get through its thorny exterior, get ready for a delicious treat underneath and one thing we can assure you is that it is worth the effort. Keep reading for 10 health benefits of drinking pineapple juice according to Buzz Noble. Immunity Boosting If you are looking at ways to boost your immune system, then pineapple juice is a go to due to its high content of nutrients including antioxidants, enzymes, and vitamins. Studies have found that certain properties of the pineapple can also aid in the absorption of iron into the diet from various other foods, and also aid in the boosting of bone health. Cancer Prevention Get the cancer before it gets you! Pineapples contain oxidants that can help in the prevention of cancer because such anti-inflammatory compounds minimize oxidative stress and inflammation, which are both factors of the deadly disease. Pineapple also contains the enzyme called bromelain that may stimulate cell death in certain cancer cells, as well as aiding in the production and function of white blood cells. Cough Remedy Prevention is better than cure and eating a a snack of pineapple can prevent an oncoming cough thanks  to its anti-inflammatory properties that soothe the throat. Again, the presence of bromelain in pineapple juice is responsible for this health benefit. Blood Pressure Pineapples have a good balance of sodium and potassium, a balance of which is key for the human body to maintain healthy blood pressure. Furthermore, pineapples are rich in antioxidants and beta-carotene, which have a positive effect on your blood pressure. Arthritis Similar to your throat, anti-inflammatory properties like bromelain in pineapple can also reduce swelling in the joints, which is the main cause of rheumatoid arthritis. Fertility Pineapples have been found to thicken the uterine lining while bromelain is a mild blood thinner, which some say helps in implantation. There is the believe  that eating the core of the pineapple up to 5 days after ovulation will help with implantation, giving you a better chance of getting pregnant. Libido Many people may not be aware of this but pineapple is an aphrodisiac. Potassium in pineapple juice reduces muscle cramps, which puts your body at top shape to do the deed. Bromelain comes into play yet again as it helps to increase testosterone in men and increase the libido of both genders. Think of pineapple when next you are planning that special night! Intestinal Worms Bromelain is the star content of pineapple as it is very effective in breaking down and digesting worms like tapeworms and roundworms. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.  