Former Governor of Ekiti State, Mr. Ayodele Fayose, and the State Working Committee (SWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state are in loggerheads over the alleged sale of the new party secretariat at Ajilosun area of the state capital. Fayose had, at a meeting with party members across the 16 councils of the state recently, said that the secretariat was sold with active involvement of the SWC. He alleged that the proceeds from the sale were lodged into the party’s account of the. But reacting to the claim by Fayose yesterday in Ado Ekiti, the PDP chairman, Gboyega Oguntuase, told newsmen that the allegation was misleading, malicious and condemnable. He said, “We have not sold the secretariat. I want to tell you that any document they say they have is absolute falsehood.” According to him, contrary to Fayose’s claim that the secretariat was sold at the foundation level, the SWC monitored the construction up to the second and third floors. The PDP boss said if the property was sold by the former governor, the party would use legal means to retrieve it from whomever it had been sold to. “At the meeting that was held in Afao Ekiti, some sensitive things were said by one of our revered leaders. Fayose alleged that the secretariat of the party had been sold with the knowledge of the party chairman and members of the SWC. With due respect to his person, we consider the statement as misleading, malicious and condemnable. “We would have called it outright falsehood, but for the sake of modesty and for the future peace of this party, we will not use this language. “To the best of my knowledge as chairman of the party, and to the knowledge of many SWC members, we have not sold the secretariat. It is true he approached me to sign a document, but I told him it was going to be a disservice to the party. I still stand by that,” he stated. Asked for Fayose’s reactions on the matter, his media aide, Lere Olayinka, said that his principal would not join issues with the SWC. “We don’t join issues with those people. We don’t want to join issues with them on this issue or other issues. They are free to say what they like,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .