Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa yesterday disclosed that the state government has earmarked N18b to build six storm drainage projects to curtail flooding in Warri and Uvwie areas of the state. Okowa, who fielded questions from newsmen in Warri after inspecting some ongoing projects being executed by the state government in Warri South, Uvwie and Udu local government areas, stated that contact for two of the projects had been awarded to two construction firms at the cost of N9.5b. “Special attention is being given to drainage challenges in the area because of the flooding posed by the terrain. Our administration will continue to prioritise resources to provide necessary infrastructure for the people,” he said. The governor expressed appreciation to people of the area for coming out in their large numbers to welcome his entourage. “More road projects are ongoing and if we find time before Christmas, we will go for more inspection, otherwise from January we will inspect more roads to ensure that our roads are properly done and that contractors are actually meeting specifications. “We are managing our resources and that is why we are giving special attention to drainage projects in Warri and Uvwie areas because they have a huge flooding challenge. “Whatever was done in the past was not just good enough considering the terrain of the area. We have been able to carry out proper studies and we will embark on six storm drainage projects estimated at N18b,” he added. Besides, Okowa congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari as he turns 77 today. In a statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Olisa Ifeajika in Asaba yesterday, the governor described the President as a man who is committed to improving the lots of Nigerians. “On the occasion of your 77th birth anniversary today, I rejoice with you and your family on behalf of the government and people of Delta State. “In the past four and half years of your leadership, you have made sweeping reforms, including border closure and improvement in the ease of doing business,” the statement reads. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .