• Gov Says Delta Fixed Portions Of Asaba/Onitsha Road Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa and the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) have warned motorists using the Asaba/Onitsha highway to avoid driving against traffic or risk arrest. While flagging off the FRSC end-of-year traffic patrol yesterday at Government House, Asaba, the governor specifically urged those at the Niger Bridge end to shun the temptation of flouting traffic rules. Okowa, who performed the ceremony with the Corps Marshal of FRSC, Mr. Boboye Oyeyemi, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Olisa Ifeajika, in Asaba, commended commission for ensuring free flow of traffic at the Asaba end of the bridge.He stated: “No one is above the law. Stringent measures have been put in place to ensure that anyone who violates traffic rules, especially driving against traffic, no matter how highly-placed, would have his vehicle impounded, and he will be prosecuted. “Drivers will have to cooperate with FRSC to ensure free flow of traffic this yuletide. In the past, it used to be a nightmare to pass through the Niger Bridge; but in the past four years, it has been different. We thank God too that though it is a federal road, the state has fixed some bad portions to ensure free flow of traffic.” Earlier, Oyeyemi had said that he was in Asaba to brief the governor on strategies being adopted by the FRSC to ensure free flow of traffic on the road during the Christmas season and beyond. While thanking Okowa for undertaking repairs on some failed portions of the road, Oyeyemi also advised motorists to desist from driving against traffic, saying that any defaulting vehicle would be impounded for at least one week. He added: “Let me assure you that with the support the state government has given to the FRSC, my men are committed to justifying that confidence reposed in us to ensure that commuters get home safely during the festive period.“The governor frowns on driving against traffic and he has given appropriate directives which our men will implement strongly.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .