The Chairman, Lagos State House of Assembly Committee on Information, Strategy and Security, Mr. Tunde Buraimoh has dismissed insinuations that the legislative arm of government is a rubber-stamp to the National Leader of All Progressives Congress (APC) or the executive arm of government in the state.
 
Buraimoh, who took time to explain the schedule of the legislators to the media yesterday, said it was a disservice to the Assembly and its 40 members from different constituencies, and also to Tinubu, who had continued to work relentlessly since leaving office as governor in 2007 to ensure that the state is stable politically, economically and security wise. He stressed that Tinubu had ensured that the state’s party structure maintained a strong disciplinary mechanism that checks every member.  “This is what the major opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos lacks, which is also very difficult to find across the 36 states of the federation,” he said.
 
While soliciting cooperation of the citizens, Buraimoh said, “The state’s lawmakers are aware and are cautious about how they manage the destinies of over 20 million estimated population in Lagos and could therefore not afford to be lackadaisical with legislative issues. For whatever decision the Assembly takes, the interest of the citizens is paramount.”
 
He also disclosed that as a matter responsibility, the Assembly had resolved to ensure that the 2020 Budget was passed and possibly signed into law by the state governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu on or before the first working day of next year. He said, “The state Assembly is trying as much as possible to make sure that the 2020 budget’s estimates and proposals are made into law not later than January, 2, 2020. This would enable the executive to have ample time and opportunity to execute all the proposals contained in the budget.”
 
He advised Lagosians, who are in doubt about the commitment of the legislative arm, to always avail themselves the opportunity of attending public hearings of the Assembly and in most cases its rigorous interrogations of the executive activities. According to him, “There is no single petition the Assembly doesn’t treat and where injustice is considered to have been done to any individual by any of the government agencies, we stepped in to ensure justice.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .