The Youth Wing of the Middle Belt Forum (MBF) has expressed support for General Theophilus Yakubu Danjuma (rtd.) over his recent comments on the threats and uncertainty in the country.It distanced itself from the Middle Belt Conscience Guard (MBCG), which claimed to be speaking for the Middle Belt over Danjuma’s viewpoint. In a statement issued by its National Youth Leader, Emmanuel Zopmal in Abuja yesterday, it noted, “We the youth of the Middle Belt region are in agreement with General Danjuma over his comments on the present state of affairs in Nigeria. “Without equivocation, the nation’s present situation has become worrisome to the extent that not many Nigerians are unaware of the threatening clouds of uncertainty hovering over the country. “The attention of the Youth Wing of MBF has been drawn to a response purportedly issued by the MBCG headed by Prince Raymond Enero, in which he (Enero) took a swipe on Danjuma over his comments.Danjuma, a former Chief of Army Staff (COAS) was quoted as saying that Nigerians would find it difficult to sleep if he chose to reveal what was happening in the country. Speaking launch of a book titled, “70 Years of Progressive Journalism: The Story of the Nigerian Tribune,” he had urged Nigerians to rise to the occasion and save the country from the current hole it has found itself, stressing that only Nigerians could save the nation from its current woes.
He was also quoted to have charged the South West geo-political zone to stand up and defend the nation’s democracy by coming against those who are committed to destroying the country. Zopmal said the MBCG, which claimed to represent the interest of the Middle Belt, had warned Danjuma that he would be held responsible for any breakdown of law and order, following his remarks at the University of Ibadan, Oyo State. “As youths of the Middle Belt Region, we were initially tempted to dismiss the response of the MBCG whose activities we have since discovered are being sponsored by enemies of the Middle Belt.“We also recall that this group, considering its betrayal, has never responded to any issue that relates to the welfare of the Middle Belt people. However, we have discovered a recurring trend that each time the group issues a statement, it is always to attack Middle Belt eminent personalities,” the statement reads. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .