Monday Omoregie End cult violence in Edo, group tells security agencies 
The University of Benin (UNIBEN) wing of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) at the weekend insisted on its rejection of enrolling in Federal Government’s Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS) for its members. It stressed that no amount of blackmail will change its resolve. In a statement issued yesterday, its Chairman, Monday Omoregie and Secretary, Fabian Amaechina, the union stated that it was appalled “by the Accountant General of the Federation (OAGF’s) insistence on forcibly implementing the IPPIS in the nation’s tertiary institutions. “We have come to the conclusion that IPPIS is Federal Government’s ploy to renege on its agreement with the union in furtherance of its intention to renege on responsibility to adequately fund the country’s education sector. “We note in particular that government is scheming to abandon the long overdue renegotiation of the ASUU-FGN 2009 Agreement and also avoid fully honouring the February 2019 Memorandum of Action (MoA) it signed with ASUU. “And for the umpteenth time, we restate our rejection of IPPIS and vow that no amount of threat or blackmail will sway our resolve,” he said. Omoregie added that based on its position members of UNIBEN’s ASUU should not enroll in the IPPIS as reaffirmed by congress. He explained that the union aligned itself with the declaration of its National Executive Council (NEC) to mobilise its members on a nationwide strike if government victimises any member for refusing to enroll on the IPPIS platform saying, “An injury to one is injury to all.” He urged on all and sundry to join ASUU in salvaging the country from the stranglehold of what he described as a regime of insensitive leadership. Meanwhile, the Assembly of Patriots International (API) has expressed concerns over the rising spate of cult related killings in Edo State, charged the security agencies to rise up to the occasion. National Coordinator of the group, Abdulkareem Ikharo, who spoke in Benin City at the weekend, condemned the killings and urged the law enforcement agencies to step up their investigations to ensure that all parties involved are arrested and prosecuted. Lamenting the rising insecurity in the state, Ikharo said, “These disgraceful and uncharitable evil machinations must stop and all stakeholders should rise up to ensure that the killings in the name of cult war end.” He also condemned the renewed hostilities among rival cult groups, which he said had done more harm to members of the society. Ikharo added that the group is consulting with law enforcement agencies, traditional rulers, various youth organisations and their leaders with a view to finding ways and means of putting ending the cult-related violence in Edo state and environs. He urged the youths in the state especially the students of higher institutions of learning to stay focused in their studies and concerned themselves with their future rather than embark on acts that will bring disgrace and regrets to them and their families in the future. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .