Former national security adviser (NSA), retired Col. Sambo Dasuki PHOTO: NAN Nigeria’s former national security adviser Sambo Dasuki has said he has no feud with President Muhammadu Buhari. Dasuki, who was the country’s NSA until May 2015, was detained for more than four years by the Nigerian government over allegations of illegal possession of arms and misappropriation of $68 million arms fund. He denied any wrongdoing. The government refused him to release despite multiple court orders to that effect, fuelling rumours that Buhari was using security agencies to settle old scores with Dasuki. But the former NSA insisted that he had no feud whatsoever with the president. “I have no feud with anybody,” Dasuki told the Hausa Service of Voice of America on Wednesday. “I am more than that. I can’t engage in a feud with anyone.” Dasuki said he stopped appearing in court as a protest against the government’s disregard for the court orders about his bail. “I stopped going to the court because I was granted bail but the government refused to release me and I said whenever the bail order is complied with I will appear before the court and defend myself,” he said. His release on Tuesday and that of Sahara Reporters’s Omoyele Sowore came on the heels of internal and external pressure on the Nigerian government to free persons illegally detained. Government-backed National Human Rights Commission also asked the government to respect the court orders on Monday. But Nigeria’s attorney-general and minister for justice Abubakar Malami said they were released based on earlier court orders. “The two defendants are enjoined to observe the terms of their bail and refrain from engaging in any act that is inimical to public peace and national security as well as their ongoing trial which will run its course in accordance with the laws of the land,” Malami said in a statement shortly before the two men were freed on Tuesday.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .