SIEC denies killing at polling unit Candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) have been declared winners of all the 16 chairmanship seats in Ekiti State in the council elections held on Saturday. Fourteen political parties participated in the election, including the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), which has rejected the results and demanded cancellation. Declaring the results yesterday, the State Independent Electoral Commission (SIEC) chairman, Justice Jide Aladejana, also denied the alleged sporadic shooting that reportedly led to the death of PDP member, Dotun Kosedake, at Okitiko unit, Araromi ward in Ikere during the election. Aladejana said preliminary investigation had revealed that no one was shot at the polling unit, but that the violence that erupted in the area, which he ascribed to cult clash, was not within the precinct of the polling unit. “Nobody was killed at Ward 7 Unit 006 in Ikere on Saturday. Nobody was shot. Though we heard that someone came violently and made away with unused ballot papers. Even in the whole unit, there were just 280 registered voters and this does not in any way vitiate the outcome,” he said. Meanwhile, former deputy governor and PDP’s governorship candidate in last year’s election, Prof. Kolapo Olusola, has condemned the alleged killing of Kosedake in Ikere Ekiti.He added that Ayeni Olumide(Salvation), Ayeni Gbenga (Special) and Abiodun Bukola were also shot during the election and were in critical condition at the Ekiti State University Teaching Hospital, Ado Ekiti. The former deputy governor, who was at the hospital to visit the three injured persons on behalf of former Governor Ayodele Fayose, called on security agencies in the state to bring the culprits to justice.Rejecting the results of the election yesterday, the PDP called for outright cancellation of the ballot. The chairman, Adegboyega Oguntuase, who made this known while addressing journalist in Ado Ekiti yesterday, said the election was a ‘mere jamboree’, as it failed to meet the minimum standard.Described it as the worst election ever in history of the state, he stressed that the results were allegedly written by the state government for SIEC officials to present and read.Oguntuase, however, declared seven day of mourning period for the late Kosedake and prayer for those currently receiving treatment at the intensive care unit of Ekiti State University Teaching Hospital.He directed its members to shun any party activities from today (December 9) in honour of the victims.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .