Ayodeji Abass-Aleshinloye Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON), Oyo State chapter, has described the inauguration of caretaker chairmen for councils in the state as another leg of illegality. Chairman of Oyo ALGON, Ayodeji Abass-Aleshinloye, stated yesterday in Ibadan that the latest action of the governor displayed his contempt for the judiciary. The statement read in part: “We respond to the continuous disregard of the Supreme Court and High Court judgements forbidding the dissolution of democratically-elected council functionaries by the Oyo State governor, Seyi Makinde, and weep for the slide our state and the rule of law is witnessing in his hands. “The governor again displayed his despise to the highest court of the land with the swearing-in of illegal caretaker committees, an illegal contraption and a body of power usurpers that is unknown to our law as proclaimed by the highest court of the land. “A governor that again recently publicly and falsely accused Justices of the Court of Appeal in Ibadan, on air, of unfounded allegations, cannot respect the courts except when decisions favour him.” According to the association, the Oyo government has tried to excuse its recklessness by alluding to the fact that the Supreme Court judgement was on Ekiti State councils and not applicable to Oyo. “Such is the level of limited understanding of our current leaders. Even if they do not know what ‘stare decisis’ means in law, the attorney-general, who has stood by while illegality thrives in our state, ought to have explained the importance of a Supreme Court pronouncement to the governor,” it added. ALGON told its members to remain steadfast in the defence of their constitutional rights and wait for further directives. “We stand fast on our democratic mandate freely and fairly given by the good people of our respective councils, and undertake to remain peaceful even in the face of extreme threats and provocation by the government of Oyo. We remain in office by law.
“
We reaffirm our confidence in the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary to uphold the Supreme Court’s and the Oyo High Court’s subsisting judgement against illegal dissolution of councils.” Even as the wheel of justice grinds slowly, the group believes that the course of justice cannot be over run with brigandage. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .