• PRP, PFN task leaders, citizens on good governance, peace National President, Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), Prof. Biodun Ogunyemi, has stated that Nigerian poor and downtrodden have nothing to celebrate this yuletide. Ogunyemi, in his message to members at Christmas, stated that the situation in the country made life unbearable for the masses, as the few privileged continued to enrich themselves at the expense of the majority.While urging members of the union to look back with thanksgiving, the ASUU president asked them to prepare for challenges in the New Year. According to Ogunyemi, worsening state of the nation’s economy hit the poor masses below the belt and made the yuletide meaningless. Meanwhile, Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) has tasked Nigerians to uphold the tenets of unity and peaceful coexistence in the New Year, for the collective growth and development of the nation. The national chairman, Mr. Falalu Bello, while felicitating with Nigerians yesterday on the yuletide, urged the people to commit themselves to the virtues of peace, love, honesty, justice, equity, humility and service.“All these virtues are the core significance and values of the yuletide and which characterised the life of Jesus Christ.”He, however, called on the government to intensify effort in curbing various challenges bedevilling the country such as insecurity, hunger and penury. Corroborating the opposition party, the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) called on Nigerians to imbibe the spirit of peace and goodwill this season of Christmas and government to provide basic necessities for the masses to make life meaningful.National president of PFN and General Superintendent of Gospel Light International Ministries (a.k.a New Covenant Gospel Church), Dr. Felix Omobude, made this known in an interview with The Guardian. Noting the yuletide as a joyful season, Omobude advised the citizenry to pursue sobriety, humility and tolerance.He, however, cautioned going into debts or crime because of the season, stressing that Jesus Christ is the Prince of Peace. “Christmas, to us, is a continuous reminder that once upon a time the heavens intervened in the affairs of men by God sending his only begotten Son, Jesus Christ, who came in human flesh and was born in Bethlehem as a seed for the redemption of the world. “The message of the angel to humanity is peace and goodwill to all mankind. It’s a joyful season, but we should pursue peace.“The fact that the saviour of the whole world was born in a manger where goats and sheep were kept should humble us.”Ahead of 2020, Omobude urged Nigerians to be prayerful and be determined to do what is right. He described the government’s fight against corruption as a right thing to do, since corruption has set the nation back in several ways. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .