 Watford’s Senegalese midfielder Ismaila Sarr (C) celebrates with teammates after scoring the opening goal of the English Premier League football match between Watford and Manchester United at Vicarage Road Stadium in Watford, north of London on December 22, 2019. (Photo by DANIEL LEAL-OLIVAS / AFP)  Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s side went 2-0 down against the bottom of the league Watford at Vicarage Road, courtesy of a David De Gea blunder, and a penalty conceded following a poor tackle in the box from Aaron Wan-Bissaka. Fans tweeted during the match that the United board should get rid of Solskjaer and replace him with Pochettino. They claimed the former Tottenham boss would help United to climb the table. Supporters took to social media after Troy Deeney scored Watford’s second goal from the penalty spot. The Hornets haven’t won in the Premier League since the beginning of November, with that victory their one and only in the league this season. “United have to bite the bullet, get rid of OGS and just go for Pochettino,” said one United fan. “If the United board had an ounce of intelligence they’d sack Ole tonight and appoint Mauricio Pochettino,” tweeted another supporter. Before the Watford match, United had run into a decent spell of form. They’ve recently recorded wins against both Spurs and Manchester City, before drawing 1-1 at home to Everton. United now risk falling seven points behind in the race for the top four. Meanwhile, Watford could draw level on points with Norwich City, with 12 points from their first 18 league matches. Elsewhere, Chelsea enjoyed a timely return to form to outplay Tottenham Hotspur in a 2-0 away victory in the Premier League as Frank Lampard outwitted his former mentor Jose Mourinho in their managerial battle on Sunday. Willian struck both Chelsea goals in the first half as Chelsea consolidated fourth place while Tottenham’s dismal afternoon went from bad to worse as forward Son Heung-min was shown a red card just past the hour mark. Chelsea coach Lampard, who won two of his Premier League titles in Mourinho’s first reign at Stamford Bridge, conjured a game plan that allowed his side to dominate from start to finish, aided by a shoddy home performance. Willian punished some slack defending to open the scoring after 12 minutes and a labouring Tottenham barely created a decent chance in response. A rush of blood to the head for Tottenham keeper Paulo Gazzaniga gifted Chelsea a penalty, awarded by VAR, just before halftime to put Chelsea in complete control. Tottenham’s hopes of a revival were scuppered when Son needlessly kicked out at Antonio Rudiger and was shown a red card, with the decision again being made by VAR. The hosts could also find themselves in hot water after an object was thrown at Chelsea keeper Kepa Arrizabalaga and Rudiger appeared to suggest he had been the victim of racial abuse. Chelsea’s win, after four defeats in their last five Premier League games, means they have tightened their grip on fourth place, opening up a four-point lead over fifth-placed Sheffield United with Tottenham six points back in the seventh spot. It was the first time in 14 matches at home against one of his previous clubs that Mourinho had suffered a defeat.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .