Operatives of Kano State police command yesterday arrested two suspected kidnappers who whisked away an 11-year-old boy and buried him alive after collecting ransom. Besides, seven notorious kidnappers and cattle rustlers were also intercepted with four AK47 rifles, two pairs of army camouflage uniforms and 500 stolen cows. Briefing journalists at the Bompai police headquarters on Monday, the Commissioner of Police, Habu A. Sani, revealed that the 11-year-old victim, Ali Mohammed, was kidnapped at Kwana Hudu Quarters in Kano and taken to an undisclosed area in Kaduna. The CP disclosed that the special anti-kidnapping squad of the command trailed the suspects, one Aminu Suleiman, 29 and Abdulrahid Ishaq, 32, down to their hideout in Kaduna after an intelligence report. According to the CP Habu, the lifeless body of the innocent victim was discovered buried at an uncompleted building at Wase Village, Minjibir Kano. Revealing other criminal discovery of the command in the last one month, the police boss said 173 suspected criminals arrested including 13 armed robbery, 10 cattle rustlers and 26 human traffickers among others. According to him, “a notorious kidnapper and armed robber by name Aliyu Mohammed of Diga, of Kumbotso local government area of Kano, was nabbed along Falgore forest and he has confessed to have kidnapped and robbed over 400 persons. “Our men also intercepted seven security guard for criminal conspiracy and theft in warehouse located at Sabon Gari area of Kano. They were found with stolen 570 motor vehicle tyres valued at N15 million. Large quantity of dried leaves suspected to be Indian hemp and other assorted illicit drugs were equally recovered”. Meanwhile, the CP said suspects of the Kano nine kidnapped children have been charged to court for prosecution. He added that the state Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice of Kano has directed immediate prosecution of the case. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .