Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa yesterday signed the 2020 Appropriation Bill into law, promising to facilitate infrastructure projects during the period. He signed the bill shortly after the Speaker of the House of Assembly, Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori and his principal officers presented it to him. Okowa stated that in spite of the trying times in the nation, his administration would do its best to work with the budget to achieve its developmental goals. Presenting the Bill, Oborevwori said it passed through a rigorous process before it was passed, adding that the figure was increased to N395.47b from N389.19b earlier proposed by the governor in the bill presented on November 6, 2019. Details of the budget showed that recurrent expenditure got N172.15b, while capital expenditure received N223.32b. “With the Appropriation Bill signed into law, it has become obvious that we as a government now have the financial document with, which we can work and hit the ground running in early 2020. “It is very instructive for us members of the executive that we pray that God will provide the resources projected within the budget in terms of internally generated revenue (IGR),” Okowa stated. Meanwhile, Okowa has expressed grief over the passing of Chairman, Delta State Bureau of Pensions, Anthony Obuh who died yesterday at the University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital (UNTH), Enugu, after a protracted illness. He was 62. Obuh, a retired Permanent Secretary and governorship aspirant of the People Democratic Party (PDP) hailed from Oki Community in Agbor, Ika South Local Government Area of the state. Former Governor Emmanuel Uduaghan later appointed him Commissioner for Special Duties, a position he occupied until the end of that administration in May 2015. He was Permanent Secretary, Government House and Protocols between 2007 and 2014 when he retired to contest the governorship of Delta State on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In a statement issued yesterday in Asaba by Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Olisa Ifeajika, he commiserated with his family, friends and community. “I feel a sense of personal loss with the demise of the great son of Ikaland. He will be sorely missed by those whose lives he touched in many ways,” the statement reads. Okowa prayed God to accept the deceased’s soul and grant his family, friends and the entire state the fortitude to bear the loss. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .