From the beginning of the year until now, despite the many travails that have befallen the nation, there are Nigerians who have continuously shown in the past few months that regardless of the darkness, light shines through. Arriving at this list, The Guardian Life measured the contribution of the personalities on a global scale, each redefining what impact, service and innovation mean. This time, only three personalities Anthony Joshua, Burna Boy, Genevieve Nnaji make a comeback. Ken Nwadiogbu
Ken Nwadiogbu was relatively unknown until 2018 when his work of art titled Thy Brother Is Not Their Brother Indeed achieved international recognition. A few days after posting his art on social media, Nwadiogbu’s works of art sparked a rather take on hyperrealism across various continents because of its uniqueness. The pioneer of a style of art, called Contemporealism (a fusion of contemporary art and hyperrealism), he became the only Nigerian this year to headline the “Moniker Art Fair,” the world’s biggest contemporary urban fair. He is also the first recipient of the “Future Awards 2019” for the Africa Prize for Visual And Applied Arts. Genevieve Nnaji
Genevieve Nnaji has again proven that she is a force to reckon with in not just the Nigeria movie industry but Africa in general. She is also known to have many firsts, some of which include the first actress to be awarded Best Actress by the Censors Board of Nigeria and the first actress to win the “Africa Movie Academy Awards” (AMAA) for Best Actress in a Leading Role (2005). The actress who is listed in Oprah Winfrey’s Most Famous People in the World, reached another milestone after her directorial debut Lionheart made the submission list for the “Oscars” making it the first Nigerian film to achieve this feat. The Critics
In the northwestern state of Kaduna, ten Nigerian kids caught the attention of the world by creating sci-fi films without the appropriate tools. In this remarkable display of creativity, Godwin Gaza Josiah (19), Raymond Yusuff (17), Victor Josiah (15), Ronald Yusuff (15), Richard Yusuff (14), Lawson Titus (17), Rejoice Josiah (12), Rachael Yusuff (8) and Rachael Ken (5), filmed with a phone with a cracked screen, while a broken microphone served as their tripod. They revealed that they saved for a month to afford the green screen and through YouTube videos, they taught themselves visual effects to create the magic that got the attention of international media such as Reuters, Al-Jazeera and a $6,000 (₦2,169,000) fund. Burna Boy
Burna Boy has no doubt proved himself an African Giant and it is no wonder why he makes the list of “Outstanding Personalities of 2019.” The music superstar cemented his megastar power this year again with a number of commendable feats. Starting 2019 on a good note, he was announced alongside Mr Eazi as one of the artists performing at the 2019 Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival on January 3. He also went on to win several notable awards including the Soundcity MVP Awards Festival, Future Awards, The Headies, All Africa Music Awards among others. The 28-year-old singer born Damini Ogulu did not stop his domination in just the African scene as his undeniable talent landed him his first well-earned “Grammy” nomination with African Giant. Whether he walks home with a gold gramophone or not in 2020 does not take away the fact that he is a winner. Outside of awards, Burna Boy’s fervent authenticity provided him room to shine as he was not only a guest artist but owned a track on the Beyoncé-curated and produced album The Lion King: The Gift. He also landed an original on the soundtrack for Queen & Slim an impending blockbuster on black love.  Grab a copy of LIFE Magazine, an insert in The Guardian Newspaper’s Sunday edition, to see who else made the list.