Liam Hemsworth Sued For $150,000 For Posting Copyright Infringement | Image: The Blast Australian actor Liam Hemsworth has been sued for copyright infringement over a photograph from the production of “Isn’t It Romantic” that was posted to his Instagram account, reports E! News. Hemsworth played the character Blake, the love interest to actress Rebel Wilson‘s character in the film. According to documents obtained by E! News, Splash News and Picture Agency are suing Hemsworth is for copyright infringement. The suit alleges that photographer Janet Mayer took a “series of photos depicting defendant Hemsworth performing an outdoor scene on location for production of the film Isn’t It Romantic.” The actor is being accused of posting the photo in question to his Instagram account on July 15, 2018, and tagging the film’s promotional page. “Hemsworth or someone acting on his behalf again posted the photograph to Hemsworth’s Instagram Story twice on June 20, 2019,” the documents state. “That same day, there was a swipe-up feature on his Instagram story to encourage people to vote for the movie Isn’t It Romantic for the Teen Choice Movie Awards.” If found guilty, Hemsworth could end up paying up to $150,000 in damages. “Plaintiff is informed and believes and on that basis alleges that defendant’s acts of copyright infringement, as alleged above, were willful, intentional, and malicious, which further subjects defendants to liability for statutory damages under Section 504(c)(2) of the Copyright Act in the sum of up to $150,000 per infringement. Within the time permitted by law, plaintiff will make its election between actual damages and statutory damages,” the documents claim. E! News reached out to Liam’s representatives for comment. In October, Canadian singer Justin Beiber was sued for sharing a paparazzi photo of himself on Instagram. According to the court documents, the photographer claimed that Bieber was guilty of “unauthorized reproduction and public display” of his photography and that Justin Beiber did not have his consent to post the photo on Instagram.