 [FILES] Governor Ifeanyi Okowa. Photo; TWITTER/IAOKOWA  Okowa, who was represented by his Special Assistant on Rural and Community Development, Emmanuel Okoro, who further encouraged them to align with the government’s peace building efforts, especially with the youths and traditional rulers to aid development of their areas.He said, “We are pleased to have here you to enable us rub minds on how to further develop our state to meet with our Stronger Delta agenda. “Your continued support for this administration is well appreciated and you will do well by helping to ensure that youths in your respective jurisdictions are properly educated on the need to allow contractors carrying out projects in your communities to work without hinderance.”Okoro, who was pioneer Speaker of the state House of Assembly, informed the gathering that Okowa created his office to interface regularly with the Presidents General, saying, “The governor is pleased with the roles played by the forum in his emergence in 2015 and his reelection this year.” “We are also not unaware that while some PGs are in good rapport with their traditional rulers, some are presently in at peace with theirs. “Knowing that the governor holds our traditional rulers in high esteem, we seize this opportunity to plead with those on this side of the divide to please sheathe their swords for the needed peace that will help further development in our communities.” Responding on behalf of the group, its Chairman, Prince Igwe Nzekwe, said, “We are ready to continue working quietly with the state government for the needed peace that will help greater development. “However, we will function better if we are carried along when such contracts are conceptualised and from the execution stage. That way, it will be easier for us to prevail on our youths, who also believe in us, as we work together. “We are not talking about political youth leaders, as we have two sets of youth leaders in our clans. Those working with us do their work diligently and quietly.”Nzekwe also used the opportunity to admonish members who want to sit tight after the expiration of their tenure to turn over a new leaf or face disciplinary measures. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .