• Lagos Begins Survey On Agric Participatory Appraisal Of Farm Estates
Executive Director, National Centre for Agricultural Mechanisation (NCAM), Ilorin, Dr. Yomi Kasali has asked government to provide take-off fund for graduates of trainings on agric mechanisation in Nigeria. Kasali said Nigeria could learn from China experience, which mobilises agricultural fabricators with ‘’take-off money for continuous stay in the business’’. He said, if the system is replicated in Nigeria, it would boost the nation’s Gross Domestic Products (GDP). Addressing over 100 women, selected across the 36 states of Nigeria, for training on how they could turn agricultural wastes into wealth, Kasali said: ‘’training without financial support for the trainees after graduation will be a waste and a killer of acquired skills. Meanwhile, Lagos State Commissioner for Agriculture, Prince Gbolahan Lawal said the state has commenced a three-week baseline survey for agriculture and participatory appraisal of farm estate and settlements. According to Lawal, the main objective of the baseline survey is to obtain comprehensive information on the production of value chains, current production capacity, assessment and valuation of inputs and agricultural development programmes, through systematic monitoring and evaluation. The Commissioner pointed out that the survey was necessary to assess the potential impact of the five-year road map for Agriculture in the state, stressing that data would be collected from all the 20 Local Government Areas and 37 Local Council Development Areas in the state. “In line with the THEMES Agenda and development of a five-year Agricultural Road Map for the state, there is the need to carry out a baseline survey that would provide necessary information for the implementation of the initiative and serve as a benchmark for measuring the success of the five-year road map for this initiative to be successful,” Lawal said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .