Coach Gernot Rohr. PHOTO: REUTERS/Sumaya Hisham • Erico worried over Super Eagles’ future 
Gernot Rohr’s reign as Super Eagles manager could end before his contract expires in June next year, according to sources at the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF). The Nigeria coach has in the past week hired a lawyer to sort out issues bordering on his wages and contract with the NFF, as well as restrictions allegedly placed on him by some top members of the Federation. Recently, reports emerged that Rohr was secretly negotiating with other countries with a view to switching camps, but some NFF officials dismissed the stories. Yesterday, Super Eagles’ Media Officer, Toyin Ibitoye said there was no problem between the NFF and Rohr as speculated in the media. “Rohr does not have any issue with the federation. I don’t think Rohr hiring a lawyer to assist him negotiate his dealings with NFF so that he can focus on the Super Eagles job is an issue. “Also, the NFF issuing querying him does not affect their relationship. An employer can query his worker at any point, but that does not stop them from working together. “Rohr has done well with the Super Eagles and I believe he will like to continue handling the team,” Ibitoye said, while accusing the media of overblowing the issue. The Guardian gathered that the Super Eagles coach would be in Nigeria next month for what a source described as a showdown talk with the NFF. Worried by the implication of the any impasse between Rohr and the NFF on the Super Eagles, former national team goalkeeper, Joe Erico said the relationship between the NFF and Super Eagles coaches over the years has in a way affected the performance of the team. “I think Rohr is tired of the manipulation he has been facing with the NFF. This is why I think he is speaking out. Issues like this with coaches have been coming up over the years with different NFF boards. “When Nigerian coaches that handled the Super Eagles in the past were sacked, did any body ask questions? I will not be surprised if they don’t renew Rohr’s contract. “Since he has started talking they might declare his position vacant next year and employ another person that is ready to submit to whatever they say. “When the new coach is tired, he will speak out and get sacked. How can the Super Eagles have a bright future if we continue running football like this? “I will keep my figures crossed and watch the way the federation will handle the renewal of Rohr’s contract,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .