 Sanwo-Olu  Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has been told to be unbiased in the selection of the next Oniru of Iru land, by following the existing structured rotation. The appeal was made yesterday by the Abisogun Ruling House of Iru land. There has been a pending succession issue for the Oniru since the demise of Oba Idowu Abiodun Oniru. Speaking on behalf of the Abisogun ruling house during a media briefing, Kashimawo Shobajo said going by the existing structured rotation, the Abisogun Ruling House was the next in line to nominate and select a candidate to ascend the throne as the 15th Iru monarch. The prince stated that the essence of the laid-down structure was to uphold the sanctity of the traditional institution, adding that anything beyond that was a deviation from the norm. His words, “What many Lagosians are not privy to is the fact that the 13th Oba of Oniru, Yesufu Abiodun, who reigned from 1934 to 1984, was from the Akiogun Ruling House and upon his demise, it was the turn of the Ogunyemi Ruling House to ascend to the throne of Oba of Oniru. “However, the Ogunyemi Ruling House declined and conceded their right to the Akiogun family, thereby paving the way for the immediate past Oniru, Oba Idowu Oniru, who was the 14th.“So, by every standard, the Akiogun family which has now reigned for a total of 75 years was only fortunate to have presented the immediate past Oniru.”He said it would have been a different ball game entirely if the Abisogun accept the Akiogun family to continue with the reign. “We are confident that the state authority will not be biased in their judgement, knowing well that the law is greater than any individual,” he added. Meanwhile, wife of the governor, Dr. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, has called on children in the country to be disciplined, respectful to parents and dedicated to their studies to become better citizens.Mrs. Sanwo-Olu, who hosted children in the state to a special end-of-year party yesterday at the Lagos House, Marina, said it was important for children to know the history of Nigeria, as well as the THEMES agenda of the state government designed to engender a greater Lagos. “This is 2019 children’s end-of-year party for all our children in Lagos State. We decided this year that we should have it in the House of Parliament. This place has been here for a long time.“You see, way back, we had the whites that were ruling Nigeria then; we had people like Lord Lugard – if you have done history you would have heard that name. They lived here and took decisions for the whole of Nigeria, not just Lagos. So, we want you to be part of the history too; we want you to know your history very well and at the same time enjoy your party,” the first lady said.
 
According to her, in the spirit of Christmas, it was important for people, including children, to show love to others and be thankful to God for his grace and benevolence.“Christmas is a period when we share love; when we remember our loved ones; when we remember people that are not as blessed as us; people that have special qualities – that are VIPs in their own rights.
 
“And so we want to thank God for the opportunity of being alive today. It can only be God that made it possible for all of us to be alive from the beginning of the year up to this moment,” she added.She thanked the parents for taking good care of the children and God for keeping the teachers.“God bless our teachers, God bless our children and God bless all the guardians that have been taking care of us one way or anther.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .