Wars are generally bad omen. A whole lot of effort goes into avoiding uncomfortable situations, how much war? No one wants to either hear of it or even see it because the tales of wars have never been soothing to the ears. Wars have featured in our lives and countries and also like the anvil and a hammer it has shaped the world continuously. These changes are either for good or for bad depending on what side you are on; the losing side or the winning side and being on the winning side is always a thrill. One might think that humans in our times on earth, being filled with centuries and decades of wars have a flare for wars, but the Bible times counter that. There were series of war and fighting in the Bible, for sure wars are to be avoided that when problems occur attempts are made by individuals and those in power, who therefore walk on eggshells to endeavour that it does not develop into a full-blown war. As the paradoxical saying goes “there is no peace without war” this when thought of is really the case. Wars do not just end with one country against another or the arms race war or slavery wars, or like the most recent in Syria over petroleum increase, no! They also do not necessarily involve carrying of arms, explosions and all but from actions we know there is a war, thus the “cold war” strife between people. Families have wars; we know there is always a family feud somewhere threatening to end the loving relationship that has existed between families centuries ago or the boundary dispute that stops village A from having any tie with village B. in this incident metaphorical explosions take place and guns and missiles come in the form of verbal blows. There is always a constant struggle for authority, wealth recognition or some other undiscovered struggle. One thing that is certain is the human struggle being constant and this struggle is simply the “survival of the fittest as Charles Darwin’s theory of evolution suggests where we all yearn for superiority, wittingly and otherwise. It really is a macho competition of who the strongest is, thus the conflict the never eludes man. Often time these wars make it into history and are not to be forgotten thus the names given to them. One prominent name that cuts across all borders is “civil’. There are a series of civil wars in different parts of the world. Being that it is war that is being talked about, what is therein civil about wars? Is it in the killing of a brother, uncle and beloved father or in the killing of innocent young ones who die because some elephants do not know how to play? Is the civility in the displacement and sickness that accompanies war? Lots of scenarios can be conjured; perhaps this could mean the intent of facing your fears, or standing up for justice amidst the dangers ahead? Well we are on a discovery to find out the civility in wars. The civility in these wars is in the location and its containment of not spreading beyond its border. Civil wars are wars fought between two states in the same country. There are various reasons why these wars occur but notable link among all is the struggle for survival, the cry for justice and better living condition of a particular group. They want to prove they can do better and are no less human to do so. The civil war of Nigeria; popularly called the Biafran war and like most wars does not have a singular reason for its outbreak but series of reasons. The footing for the war was on the refusal for a secession of the Biafrans which began as a butterfly effect to other events during the war. The American civil war also finds its footing from the preservation of slavery by the Southern states whereas the abolitionist moved for the new age of freemen. Civil wars mainly are wars that take place within the confines of a country and not spreading further than that. Ever considered that the tale of war seems adjusted, doctored thus one-sided? Sure, the popular saying “there are two sides to a coin” so there is always a different narrative and viewpoint of happenings and events. Consequently another struggle, another war to convince a listening ear they were on the right and the opposing side the ‘villain’. Different reflections on the cause and effects of wars, this explains, therefore, the constant capturing of these events by arts, literature and history. To mention a few “Half of a Yellow Sun” by Chimamanda Adichie which was further adapted for film or blessed memory Toni Morrison’s “Beloved” and more yet to be drawn and written. All of these works capture another viewpoint of the wars not seen and heard, perhaps trying to counter false narratives that seem authentic.
Wars are a manmade disaster that leads to a cacophony of confusion. Despite the wars fought and engaging with its ills, there is always one throbbing problem that could beat the drums of war. But sure in unison having witnessed the war or not, one thing the world approves of is that to have a war is the greatest mishap that can happen to the human race because it leaves a deep wound that can never be healed. In spite of all, there is nothing civil about the civil war.