Wizkid Curses Fake Pastors | Photo Kwaku Alston Wizkid‘s first post on Twitter today is an angry lash out at fake pastors. The Afrobeats star took to his twitter page this morning to curse fake preachers and state that he does not endorse any pastor or church. “Starboy no dey endorse no Pastor or church o! Ogun kill u fake pastors!” he tweeted. This is coming a few hours after Davido debunked claims that he was promoting a Common Wealth of Zion Assembly [COZA] event in a viral video. In the video, Davido asks a little girl where she would be on the first week of January, to which the girl replied that she and her mother will be at a 12 days COZA event. The mother also backed up the child with more information about the event after which Davido proceeded to say, “Yea, my name is Davido I’m a musician and I put God in everything first I do” The video met with backlash as social media users accused Davido of promoting and being an ambassador of the disgraced(?) church. Wizkid later went on to retweet a post by Tiwa Savage in which she called out COZA for using a comment fraudulently obtained from her to promote an upcoming COZA event: “It has been brought to my attention that there is a viral video which incudes me advertising an upcoming COZA event. I want to state that I have nothing to do with the church and generally do not endorse their events. I’m extremely disappointed that I was fraudulently approached to simply comment on how good God has been to me and it has been wrongly edited to use my image to create an advert to deceive people. COZA this is wrong! I will be taking action if this is not immediately retracted.” In a second tweet by Wizkid, he alleged that he was approached by a certain lady from an unnamed church: “And for dat lady that put a camera in my face! Ogun kiss u and your church ” Wizkid is not new to social media outbursts. During the spate of the Xenophobia attacks that rocked social media some months backs, the “Ojuelegba” crooner rebuked some celebrities over their insensitive comments on the issue.