 Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun state  on-appointment of commissioners and aides has become a source of worry to some residents of the state. While some believe that Governor Dapo Abiodun has always been meticulous, even with his private business, others believe it is the court case instituted against him by the Allied Peoples Movement (APM) that was holding the appointments. APM told The Guardian that the court case instituted against the governor by its governorship candidate, Mr. Adekunle Akinlade, was responsible for non-appointment of cabinet members. According to the opposition party, the governor is waiting for the judgment of the Supreme Court before making any substantial appointment. Abiodun, at a luncheon organised for stakeholders in Abeokuta on Tuesday evening, said that before Christmas, all speculations on the list would be put rest. His words: “We will continue to be open to objective criticism, because it keeps us on our toes. However, objective criticisms will not deter us from being deliberate, focused and purposeful.” But a chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief Kunle Adesina, described the release of the list as “a befitting Christmas present that would make (Ogun) politicians’ Christmas joyful.” The governor had enthused that he was unmindful of their anxiety, adding that he wanted “to make the Christmas merry for the people most of who are in a hurry to see the list of political appointees.” He promised to do the needful and release the list in earnest. Insisting that focus had been on “doing everything possible to ensure that things were properly done”, he stated that the foundation of his vision had already been put in place and “the building process has begun.” On the state of infrastructure, the governor said that his administration was committed to the rehabilitation of roads, adding that he would, in the next 30 days, commission the first set of roads rehabilitated by his government. His words: “We are committed to the total rehabilitation of as many roads as we can. We will be commissioning the first set of roads that this administration built from the scratch in Ogun West, by the grace of God, in the next 30 days. To the glory of God and to the shame of the fifth columnists, we will be unwavering in our commitments. “So if an administration is rehabilitating roads across the state, we will be commissioning these roads in the next 30 days. At least, we couldn’t have manufactured those roads, we must have been working on them in the past three or four months.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .