Dare Art Alade (2nd right) receiving Cadi B and her crew on arrival at the Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Lagos. Queen of rap Cardi B has arrived Lagos ahead of the Livespot X Festival holding today, at the Eko Atlantic Energy City, Victoria Island, Lagos. The Grammy award winning rapper, who arrived Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Lagos, seems to be showing fans the fruits of her money moves, as she was seen stepping out of a $20,000,000 aircraft at the airport. The rapper had earlier posted a video of herself dancing in the private jet on her way to Lagos, but what fans didn’t know was that the jet cost a fortune. Cardi B was seen getting down from a Vistajet SK-VJG. It would interest you to know that in 2017, chattering a Vistajet for just an hour, cost between $12,000 to $17,000 and this cost depends on location and aircraft typ. This is 2019 and Cardi B will be in Nigeria for about 3 days before she moves on to Ghana and then back to America; just do the math. Cardi B’s arrival in Lagos is preceding her performance at the Livespot X Festival on December 7 in Lagos and December 8 in Accra. Much to the excitement of her fans across the country, Cardi B will be performing alongside other Nigerian and Ghanaian A-list artistes at show. famous cable TV commercial in the history of NYC. Some of Nigeria’s biggest music stars have been confirmed to feature in the first edition of the Livespot X Festival. The impressive lineup of music acts who are set to grace the stage alongside Cardi B will include Olamide, Tiwa Savage, Wande Coal, Patoranking, Ice Prince, Niniola, Seyi Shay, Darey, Reekado Banks, Skiibii, Fire Boy, Joeboy and Burna Boy. The roster of artists comprises an exciting mix of Nigerian music elite, as well as some of the newer acts who have enjoyed success in 2019. Burna Boy, Olamide and Tiwa Savage lead the line as some of the biggest names currently in the Nigerian music industry. Both Tiwa and Burna have earned international acclaim over the last few months, while Olamide continues to stake his claim as the king of the streets. Joeboy and Fireboy have become two of the most sought after music acts in the country. Their meteoric rise has seen both stars become hugely influential figures in the Afro-pop genre. Patoranking, Wande Coal and Ice Prince have all earned massive mainstream recognition over the years and all three will be looking to cap off another successful year with a stellar performance at Livespot X. Niniola and Seyi Shay will be adding some much-needed girl-power to the already impressive lineup of performers. While Skiibii and Reekado Banks will be looking to build on the remarkable success of their smash hit collaboration, Sensima. Speaking on the lineup of music acts, the Chief Creative Director, Livespot360, Dare Art Alade, said, “We know how much love the fans have for Cardi B and this was one of the reasons we chose to give fans a special experience to see the queen of hip-hop live in Lagos. However, we also are aware of the massive appeal of some of our Nigerian music acts. This show will not be complete without these music stars, and this is why we are thrilled to announce these performing acts for the Livespot X Festival.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .