Super Falcons striker, Monday Gift believes the on-going Asisat Oshoala Football Championship for Girls holding at the Campos Mini Stadium, Lagos is a credible platform to source for raw female talents that will play the game to the highest level. Gift, who is among the participants at the Oshoala Championship, said she is taking part in the tournament despite playing for the Super Falcons because she wants to learn more of the techniques of the game from experienced Barcelona academy coaches. The former national U- 20 female team captain and FC Robo Queens player, described grassroots football development as the best process to expose and educate female footballers on the basic techniques in football.“People are surprised that I am taking part in the tournament despite attaining the level of playing for the Super Falcons. Football is a continuous learning process. “As a national team player, playing with the upcoming footballers would also spur them to give their best. “The Oshoala championship has also given grassroots players the opportunity to display their talents.”She confessed that playing alongside Oshoala in the Super Falcons has helped her career, adding, “Her exceptional skills motivates me to raise the standard of my game.” At the championship on Wednesday, the organisers revealed that the players for the final phase of the event scheduled to hold from December 21 to 24, would be known today.SUPER Falcons striker, Monday Gift believes the on-going Asisat Oshoala Football Championship for Girls holding at the Campos Mini Stadium, Lagos is a credible platform to source for raw female talents that will play the game to the highest level. Gift, who is among the participants at the Oshoala Championship, said she is taking part in the tournament despite playing for the Super Falcons because she wants to learn more of the techniques of the game from experienced Barcelona academy coaches.The former national U- 20 female team captain and FC Robo Queens player, described grassroots football development as the best process to expose and educate female footballers on the basic techniques in football. “People are surprised that I am taking part in the tournament despite attaining the level of playing for the Super Falcons. Football is a continuous learning process. “As a national team player, playing with the upcoming footballers would also spur them to give their best. “The Oshoala championship has also given grassroots players the opportunity to display their talents.”She confessed that playing alongside Oshoala in the Super Falcons has helped her career, adding, “Her exceptional skills motivates me to raise the standard of my game.”At the championship on Wednesday, the organisers revealed that the players for the final phase of the event scheduled to hold from December 21 to 24, would be known today.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .