Operatives of Ogun State police command have arrested four men in connection with the shooting of a herdsman in Odeda area of the state. The suspects attacked one Abubakar Idris in front of Iporo Fadipe community high school while moving his cattle to Ijebu Ode from Olugbo village via Odeda, on December 4.
 
According to a police spokesman, Abimbola Oyeyemi, “on the strength of the report, the DPO Odeda division, mobilized his men and raced to the scene where the victim was met in the pool of his own blood. He was quickly rushed to the hospital for medical treatment while effort was intensified to get the suspects arrested. The efforts of the detectives yielded a positive result on the 6th of December when the four suspects were rounded up in their hideout on a tip-off.
 
“The dane gun with which the victim was shot was also recovered from them. They have all made confessional statements to the police. The victim is also responding to treatment in the hospital”. Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police, CP Kenneth Ebrimson has ordered the immediate transfer of the suspects to state criminal investigation and intelligence department for further investigation and prosecution. In another development, a Magistrates’ Court sitting in Ilorin, Kwara State, on Tuesday, remanded a farmer, Abubakar Babato, in a correctional centre for allegedly killing his 18-year-old girlfriend. The senior magistrate, Mr. Muhammed Ndakene, ruled that the defendant be remanded in custody and adjourned the case until January 6, 2020, for further mention. The accused person is facing a one-count charge of culpable homicide, to which he pleaded not guilty. Earlier, the prosecutor, Insp. Isaac Yakubu recalled that on November 27, the case was transferred from the Divisional Police Headquarters, Bani, Kwara, to the Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (CIID), Ilorin for investigation. Yakubu said one Abubakar Bajida reported the case at the Bani Police Station on November 16. According to him, the accused person had on November 15 visited the complainant’s house to invite his daughter, Azumi Abubakar, who happened to be the defendant’s lover. The prosecutor said that the defendant left with the complainant’s daughter but she never returned home.  Yakubu said that while the complainant was on his way to the defendant’s house to check for his daughter, he found her lying dead in the bush in a pool of her own blood. “Investigation conducted led to the arrest of the accused person, who confessed to having macheted the victim to death,” the prosecutor said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .