Minister of State for Science and Technology, Mohammed Abdullahi The Federal Government has stated that bulk of the policies initiated recently is aimed at putting Nigeria on the fast lane of sustainable development. President Muhammadu Buhari who was represented by the Minister of State for Science and Technology, Mohammed Abdullahi at the opening ceremony of the 17th meeting of the National Council on Science and Technology at Awka, Anambra recently, noted these policy initiatives would not only fast track growth, but would also reduce unemployment. According to the President, the theme “Moving Nigeria from Import dependent to Sustainable Self-reliant and exporting Nation through Science, Technology and Innovation” is apt in view of the numerous challenges facing the country, such as security and rampant cases of smuggling across the borders. He pointed out that his administration had initiated guided reforms for the growth, development and wellbeing of the citizens, adding that his administration meant well for the citizens. He called on Nigerians to make use of what is being produced in the country, stressing that the Government and the Ministry working hard at synergizing with the organized private sector at achieving commercialization of research and development results. Abdullahi said that the only way to having sustainable growth in moving the country forward, is through export, saying that it can only be achieved through Science, Technology and Innovation. He said that the Ministry is endowed with human resources which can help in moving the country to the next level, adding that STI has a pivotal role in transforming Nigeria into a sustainable, self-reliant nation and investment into STI is very essential for economic growth and social progress. Earlier in his opening remarks, the commissioner Ministry of Tertiary Education, Science and Technology, Anambra state, Prof. Theresa Nkechi Obikezie, said the National council on Science and Technology is aimed at promoting the scientific development and technological modernization of Nigeria through developing high level of human resources, promoting and maintaining scientific research projects and disseminating Scientific and technological Information. Prof. Obikezie, called on the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology and her agencies to put Anambra state in the first line of states to be carried along in their activities. The chairman, senate committee on Science and Technology Senator Uche Lilian Ekwunife, said Nigeria is blessed with a vast natural and human resources, which must be harnessed and used by the manufacturing sectors as a means of boosting the economy. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .