Two persons were feared dead following a pipeline explosion in Isheri Olofin area of Alimosho Local Government, Lagos. There was palpable apprehension and pandemonium when residents woke up with the sound of the heavy explosion and wildfire in the early hours of Thursday. It was gathered that the pipeline, ruptured by vandals in the early hours of Thursday morning was located within Gloryland estate, Isheri-Olofin.The Guardian gathered that residents flee the area when they discovered that the entire community had been engulfed by thick smokes from the explosion scene. Some residents revealed that about two persons died and several others injured in the incident.It was further gathered that the victims sustained injuries while fleeing the community to prevent being caught in the explosion that rocked the community. Confirming the explosion, Director-General, Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), Dr. Femi Oke-Osanyintolu, disclosed that emergency responders have been deployed to the sceneIn a statement sent, Oke-Osanyintolu said: “There is an outbreak of fire at the back Diamond Estate along Isheri/Lasu -Igando Road. I suspect that the fire must have been caused by pipeline vandalism. I have activated Lagos State Response Plan. All key Stakeholders have moved to the scene”. Reacting to the explosion, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) said the oil pipeline fire outbreak along Atlas Cove-Mosimi pipeline in Baruwa swamp area of Lagos was caused by suspected oil thieves.The corporation however said the development would not lead to scarcity of petroleum products, especially as festive season draws closer. NNPC Acting Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs Division, Samson Makoji stated that preliminary reports of the incident revealed that the pipeline might have been torched by act of vandalism of suspected oil thieves, who had hacked into the line to intercept flow of petrol. According to him, the group had in conjunction with the Lagos State Fire Service, deployed various categories of personnel to the scene to bring the fire under control.Makoji said the pipeline would be put back into operation as soon as possible, stressing that the development would not impact petroleum products supply in the area.The corporation added  that it has 116million litres of PMS in Mosimi depot, 7.5million litres in Satellite depot and 35million litres in Ibadan depots, all within ‘System 2B network’.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .