Kathleen Saville and Olive Woodward best friends move into care home together | Credit: Berry Hill Park Care Home Many of us long for a forever friendship especially when you use the catch phrase, ‘best friends forever!’ 89-year-old Kathleen Saville and Olive Woodward found their forever friendship in the year 1941 when they were just 11. Since becoming friends, the duo have never lived more than 10 minutes away from each other and according to a BBC report, they both recently moved into the same nursing home in England. It is gathered that shortly after Saville first came to live at Berry Hill Park Care Home in Mansfield, Nottinghamshire, Woodward followed suit. “If I’m unhappy or in trouble I only have to go to Kathleen and we’ll always end up laughing,” Woodward, who moved into the home six weeks ago, told the BBC, adding that being able to see her friend “all day, every day” has had a positive effect on her. Their friendship has an added advantage that most friends don’t get to enjoy, the pair never fight. Olive Woodward (L) and Kathleen Saville (R) met in 1941 and have been friends ever since. See SWNS story SWMDfriends. Kathleen Saville and Olive Woodward, both 89, became friends as 11-year-old schoolgirls in 1941. They bonded over teasing boys and playing games and have stayed close friends ever since. Staff at Berry Hill Park in Mansfield, Nottinghamshire, have dubbed them the “dynamic duo” and say you can still “see their love for each other”. December 4, 2019. Saville believes this is the key to their long standing bond. “We knew we would always be friends when we met. She means a lot to me,” Saville told the BBC, adding that she knows they’ll also be friends after their time on Earth comes to an end. The ‘dynamic duo’ as they have been dubbed at the nursing home want their frienship to continue to the great beyond as they also plan on remaining friends in heaven. Seville says: “If Olive goes first she’ll come back to fetch me. We’re going to be friends in heaven.” Speaking about the admirable friendship that has withstood the test of several decades, manager Sally Tebbett told the BBC. “They never stop chatting and giggling. It’s so endearing, they genuinely love each other and you can see that.”