“Carry Condom, Accept Rape” – Daniel Shravan In the era of the Me Too movement and related campaigns against sexual assault, an Indian filmmaker Daniel Shravan has called for the legalisation of rape and also advised that women should cooperate with potential rapists. Shravan on Wednesday took to social media to share his recommendations. In what he termed “Rape Without Violence Scheme” he suggested that the government should legalise the abominable act. He further posited that women should cooperate with rapists by carrying condoms and accepting it without resistance. According to Shravan, the government and women are “frightening” rapists with anti-rape laws and pepper spray. He opines that rapists resort to killing their victims because they can’t fulfil their sexual desires. Shravan believes that these measures would curb rape-related deaths. Read Daniel Shravan’s post below: “Government should encourage legalize Rape Without Violence Scheme (No Killing after Rape). Girls above 18 should be educated on rapes (i.e. girls should not deny sexual desires of men). Only then these type of things will not happen. “It is foolishness that killing Veerappan will control smuggling, killing Laden will control terrorism. In the same way, “Nirbhaya Act” can’t control “Rapes with Violence”. Especially Indian girls should be aware of sex education (carrying condoms and dental dams after age of 18). “Simple Logic….when the sexual desire is fulfilled men wouldn’t kill women. Government should pass a scheme something like this to control deaths after rape. “Society, women organizations and government are frightening rapists with Nirbhaya Act, pepper spray etc. Rapists are not finding a way to get their bodily sexual desires and getting these killing thoughts. An evil thought provokes crime (killing). Better women should accept men’s sex.” Shravan’s comment is coming days after the high profile Hyderabad rape and murder case in which an unnamed 27-year-old veterinarian was raped, strangled and set alight in the southern city of Hyderabad, in Telangana state last week. The absurd comment infuriated social media users who have taken to Twitter to express their disgust:    Rape is the fourth most common crime against women in India. According to India’s National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), around 100 sexual assaults are reported to the police in India every day. In 2017, more than 32,000 rapes were reported across the country — but experts say that the real number is likely much higher, owing to the shame attached to sexual assault and the social barriers faced by victims.