 Edith Okowa  She gave the charge as Fidelity Bank Plc donated over 500 medicated eyeglasses and conducted 33 successful surgeries in the state in its medical outreach programme at the General Hospital, Owa-Oyibo in Ika North East Council Area. The first lady commended the financial institution for the medical care as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) to the people of Delta State tagged “Helping Hands Programme” in partnership with O5 Initiative. “The greatest way to impact on somebody is by helping just as our O5 motto states, changing our world, one person at a time. “We implore all to show love to one another during this Christmas Season and I frown at those celebrating for the wrong reasons instead of dedicating their lives to Jesus Christ who gives perfect peace,” she said. While challenging other banks and corporate institutions in the state to emulate Fidelity Bank, Mrs. Okowa enjoined of Ika people to turn up for the free medical exercise, noting that Fidelity Bank was prepared to the outreach in the state. Earlier in his welcome address, Managing Director of the bank, Nnamdi Okonkwo, stated, “The Free Medical Outreach at Owa-Oyibo is in fulfillment of the objectives of the bank’s CSR philosophy, which focuses on the environment, education, health and social welfare. “As a bank, we believe that being socially responsible is the most effective way to bring about change in any society. Taking responsibility is indeed the only way in which lives can be touched and enriched in Nigeria today”. Okonkwo, who was represented by the Regional Head, Mid West 2, Mrs. Augusta Anyanwu, commended Mrs. Okowa for impacting lives under the O5 Initiative, saying, “Dame Edith Okowa stands out as one of the very few individuals who does matchless humanitarian works in the country. “We chose to collaborate with her for this reason in our all-inclusive bottom-up CSR, the Fidelity Helping Hands Programme (FHHP)”. Speaking, state Commissioner for Health, Dr. Mordi Ononye, who was represented by the Senior Special Assistant to Governor Okowa, Dr. Patrick Onwachei, urged the people of Delta State to avail themselves of the opportunity provided by the bank and commended the financial institution for collaborating with the O5 Initiative to advance healthcare. One of the beneficiaries, Maria Etunim commended the bank and the first lady, just as she expressed happiness for the free medical outreach. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .