Olu of Warri The Olu of Warri, His Majesty Ogiame Ikenwoli yesterday urged the Federal Government to begin work on the $16b Ogidigben Gas City project, which he said, has the potential of transforming the Delta State economy. Speaking during ceremony to mark his fourth coronation anniversary at Ode-Itsekiri, he pleaded with the Federal Government to resume work on the site, which had been abandoned since January 2015 after its inauguration by former President Goodluck Jonathan. He noted that said the Gas City project at Ogidigben in Warri South WestN Council Area has the potential of creating thousands of jobs, make the country a global gas hub and touch the peoples’ lives positively. He thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for recently approving a new Warri Deep Sea Port and Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi for his efforts in bringing the project to fruition. The Warri monarch said, “We have used every opportunity to call Mr. President’s attention to the Ogidigben Gas City project. Ordinarily, the project should engage Nigeria’s full priority, given its economic importance, job creating opportunities and other economic advantages it promises.” He added that he had also visited the presidency and met directly with President Buhari to solicit his assistance in resuscitating the Warri Port, building a new Warri Sea Port, the Ogidigben gas revolution park, the Koko-Ogheye road, the Warri-Ode Itsekiri trans-highway and other projects. Ikenwoli said the Itsekiri nation had remained focused on the goals they set for themselves from the beginning of building an Itsekiri nation that is protective of its bountiful native land, committed to finding workable solutions to contemporary challenges while embracing future opportunities. He decried Itsekiri politicians for working against one another during the last general elections, saying the memories of such unpatriotic acts would continue to haunt and live with the Itsekiri people for a long time. “The sad experiences of our losses, arising from mutual suspicion, greed, selfishness, narrow-mindedness and unhealthy rivalry, left very bitter taste in our mouths. “Needless to say that I am aware of all the horse trading that took place across party divides, driven mostly by personal and parochial considerations. As it stands today, we have come down from our position four members in the state House of Assembly at the beginning of current political dispensation in 1999 to only two seats in the House. “Even the two continue to be threatened mostly from the actions or inactions of our politicians,” the Olu said. He, therefore, urged all Itsekiri to go back to the drawing board and begin afresh, saying he had been advised to set up the Itsekiri Strategic Work Group (ISWG) to resolve issues confronting the Itsekiri nation. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .