Abiodun sets up advisory council to strengthen PPP
The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ogun State has extended hand of fellowship to the returnees from Allied Peoples Movement (APM), urging them to abide by the prevailing decorum in the party. On Monday, Adekunle Akinlade and others who left the APC after the primaries in 2018 to pursue their political aspirations in the APM, had returned to the ruling party in droves. Akinlade, who led the returnees, was the APM governorship candidate in the 2019 governorship election. With their return, they collapsed all APM structures into to the APC. In a statement yesterday signed by the Publicity Secretary of its Caretaker Committee, Tunde Oladunjoye, in Abeokuta, Ogun APC expressed readiness to receive the repentant members back into its fold. While stating that it viewed the return of the members as a welcome development, the party urged them to return to their various wards for registration and realignment. The statement added that apart from going back to their various wards to re-enrol and reconcile with their people and leaders, it was also important for the returnees to abide by the prevailing peace and decorum in the party and work under the caretaker executive formed by the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party under the leadership of Chief Yemi Sanusi. It urged those with cases against the party in courts to withdraw them without further delay, to demonstrate their loyalty and sincerity. Quoting from the statement of the NWC of the APC read by the National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Lanre Issa-Onilu, on December 16, 2019 while announcing pardon for suspended members, the Ogun APC said it hoped that the returnees would seize the opportunity to fully reconcile themselves with their ward, council and state party structures, key into the party activities, and continue to contribute to the growth and stability of the party. Meanwhile, in his resolve to maximise the state’s objectives on Public Private Partnership (PPP), Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun has set up Business Advisory Council. According to the governor, the council will monitor and evaluate the framework to actualise the agenda, which the administration considers fundamental to the creation of an enduring economic development and individual prosperity of the people of Ogun. The state government’s economic blueprint provides for a conducive and competitive environment for business enterprises to thrive, he said while addressing labour leaders, activists, unionists, students and traders at the OK Centre. The council, he said, will set clear predictable standard of engagement that will apply to all development partners. “We are sincerely committed to a PPP approach in ensuring our resolve to have a sound PPP approach. “We now have a Business Advisory Council that comprises stakeholders and focuses on ensuring that the business environment remains conducive and competitive for investments to grow in Ogun,” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .