A Lagos State Traffic Management Authority, (LASTMA) official, Ola Oyeshina, who was attacked at about 5pm on Friday, 29th November during the course of decongesting traffic in the Iganmu-Sifax axis of Apapa, died yesterday.
   
It was learnt that the attackers hit the officer with a large stone, which got him severely injured and was immediately rushed to Area “B” police station, along with two of the people that attacked him. Thereafter, ACP Bayo Sulaimon ordered the detention of the two attackers that were arrested, while a letter of medical referral was issued for the victim at the hospital.
   
Due to the trauma experienced, Oyeshina was immediately referred to LUTH from Randle Hospital, Surulere, but he died yesterday.
 
Speaking on the incident, the General Manager of LASTMA, Olajide Oduyoye condemned in its entirety the continued attack on the officers of the agency in the course of executing their duty, which has been entrusted to them by a law passed by the State House of Assembly in 2000 and amended in 2018. Oduyoye said it was unfortunate that the agency lost the young promising officer to the cold hand of death in the early hours of Saturday, 30th November 2019. He assured that the perpetrators of the dastardly act that were caught would be prosecuted in the court of law to serve as deterrent to other members of the public, who may harbour committing such crime in future. Oduyoye revealed that: “LASTMA was established to manage and control traffic in order to reduce the people’s travel time on our roads, increase economic growth through increased productivity and ensure the populace safety and security. A situation where road users will now turn against any government official in order not to answer the consequences of breaking the law is unacceptable and would not be condoned henceforth”.
 
The LASTMA boss emphasised that with the recent inauguration of a committee on war against traffic and environmental offenders, there is no more hiding place for Lagos residents or visitors that go against the law. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .