PENGASSAN trucks The Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN), has said that efforts made by the association and its belief in the country’s project, ensured stability in the oil and gas industry. The efforts, the oil workers also said boosted investors’ confidence as well as ensured steady revenue earnings for the nation. The union called on critical stakeholders to contribute their quota in building a stronger nation where justice, truth and equity reigns. In its New Year message, signed by its President, Ndukaku Ohaeri and Secretary General, Lumumba Okugbawa, the union advised for restraint by various security and law enforcement agencies with regards to potential human right abuses and utter disregard to judicial pronouncements. To avoid the reoccurrence of former National Security Adviser, Sambo Dasuki and Founder, Sahara Reporters, Omoyele Sowore’s episode in the nation’s political clime and nationhood, they demanded that the judiciary should discharge their constitutional responsibilities within the dictates of the rule of law and posterity. They urged security agencies to seek ways of mitigating the rising wave of insecurity across the nation. According to the oil workers, the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) and the Department of State Security (DSS) should explore partnership and collaborative exchanges with the labour unions to curb the seemingly insurmountable threats to lives and properties occasioned by the endless incidences of kidnapping, communal violence, highway robbery and other politically motivated crimes. Noting that the union has identified the genuine steps taken by the Federal Government in addressing the myriads of economic challenges facing the nation, it urged that the economic renaissance must thrive under an atmosphere of freedom and the rule of law. It applauded the efforts such as institutional reforms, port reforms, financial prudence and anti-corruption campaigns and transparency in the operations of the petroleum downstream industry among others. The association added that “the core fundamentals of modern democracy is the rule of law; without it, there is no democracy. No Nation worth its existence will undermine this essential component of a free society. “As an association we are deeply worried over recent developments within the socio-political circle in the country. The association has observed these unfolding events with utter amazement and must now lend her voice as a responsible and critical stakeholder in the Nigeria project. “We are also greatly disturbed that the democratic experience we laboured fortuitously for during the military era with other labour unions and the civil liberties organisations is gradually taking a dive towards the very issues we resisted, to the point of paying the supreme price as cost for the struggle in enthroning this democracy. “It will therefore be irresponsible and unpatriotic for us to stand aloof and watch while the tenets of democracy are being eroded on a daily basis by those we collectively gave our mandates to represent us”. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .