The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) says it cannot guarantee industrial peace and harmony, if state governors refuse to conclude negotiations and payment of the National Minimum Wage by December 31. In a communique issued at the end of its meeting with state council chairmen on implementation of the National Minimum Wage, the union said there were currently three implementation categories in which all states fell into. The communique was jointly signed by NLC President; Dr Ayuba Wabba, NLC General Secretary; Emmanuel Ugboaja and Abdulrafiu Adeniji; National Chairperson, Joint National Public Service Negotiating Council (Trade Union Side). The communique noted that Kaduna, Kebbi, Lagos and Adamawa have commenced implementation and payment of the new minimum wage, while Jigawa had concluded negotiations but yet to make its first payment to workers. It also noted that Borno, Abia, Kano, Bayelsa, Sokoto, Niger, Abia, Akwa Ibom, Edo, Ondo, Ebonyi, Katsina and the Zamfara States, have constituted a negotiating committee between their state government and Labour, following consequential adjustments of salaries. “States which have not put in place a Negotiating Committee between the State Government and Labour on the consequential adjustment of salaries, include Bauchi, Yobe, Rivers, Benue, Gombe, Kwara, Imo, Osun, Ekiti, Oyo, Anambra, Taraba, Cross River, Ogun, Enugu, Nasarawa, Plateau, Kogi and Delta States.” The communique noted that Organised Labour in the states comprising the Nigeria Labour Congress, Trade Union Congress, and the Joint National Public Service Negotiating Council (Trade Union Side) would work in harmony to ensure that all workers enjoy the full benefit of the new National Minimum Wage. The union urged state chairmen to immediately convoke an emergency State Executive Council meeting and State Congress of all workers to brief them of the outcome of the stakeholders’ meeting on the new national minimum wage implementation. “States that are still on the discussion table (Category 2) should expedite discussions to conclude the negotiations on or before the 31st of December, 2019.
“States which have not commenced discussion should quickly constitute a Negotiating Committee and expeditiously conclude discussions on salary adjustment consequent on the new national minimum wage on or before 31st December 2019. “In the event that any state fails to comply with these resolutions on or before 31st December 2019, organised labour would not guarantee industrial harmony in such states,” it added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .