 Oshoala Football Championship. PHOTO: TWITTER/AISHATOSHOALA  Speaking at the Asisat Oshoala Football Championship for Girls, which kicked off at the Campos Mini Stadium, Lagos yesterday, NFF First Vice President, Seyi Akinwunmi said Oshoala’s desire to continue sponsoring a football championship for girls would help discover more women football stars in the country. “The NFF is delighted that Oshoala is putting up this championship to promote education and football among girls in Nigeria and Africa. I am glad that girls from across the country are participating in the championship to exhibit their skills. “By next year, the federation will be more involved in the championship and also encourage other organisations or individuals, who are ready to put up programmes like this. It must not be financed, but moral support will go a long way to motivate the organisers,” he said. Nigeria Olympic Gold medalist, Chioma Ajunwa, who was a special guest at the programme, enjoined the participants at the event to be disciplined and focused in the championship. “Getting girls to showcase their talents in the football championship will assist more female talents to emerge in football. “Oshoala is doing a good job to encourage the girl-child to become somebody in life. The girls should use this opportunity to give their best. The female footballers should also realize, as they go on in their football career that getting educated should also be a priority. “If you are not educated as a sports person, you will not attain the standard you set for your self,” she said. The championship, which had its first screening exercise yesterday, is divided into two groups of amateur footballers and secondary school players. Players ion the secondary school category, who are short on football skills, were groomed by experienced coaches from Barcelona Academy, before the amateur players began their screening. After the first phase of screening, which will end tomorrow, talented players will be picked from the two groups to compete in the championship finals slated to hold from December  21 to 24. According to the organisers, the MVP player of the tournament will be given football scholarship training to Spain, while the outstanding 23 players will be enrolled in the Barcelona Academy in Lagos by the Oshoala Foundation. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .