 Senior Pastor, House on the Rock and Convener of The Experience Lagos, Pastor Paul Adefarasin (left); Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu; Managing Director, Guaranty Trust Bank, Mr. Segun Agbaje and Co-Founder of Access Bank Plc., Mr. Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede, during the 14th edition of The Experience at Tafawa Balewa Square, Onikan, Lagos, yesterday.<br />  A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Gboyega Akosile, said Sanwo-Olu gave his administration’s commitment for developmental partnership, while addressing thousands of worshippers in the early hours of yesterday at the 14th Edition of The Experience, an annual gospel music concert, held at the Tafawa Balewa Square, Onikan, Lagos. Accompanied by his wife, Ibijoke, Sanwo-Olu said: “Today, with all sense of humility, I stand in front of you as the 15th Governor of Lagos State witnessing The Experience 14. At this same location, 193 days ago, I was sworn-in and what that means is that I have spent 193 days in office. This also means I have spent 13.2 percent of my 1,460 days. I am counting down, and I’m asking God to continue to lead me, because, at the end of those days, I will stand answerable to Him and to the people of Lagos State, based on the things I have done during my tenure. “I thank the organisers of The Experience, for journeying with me. One thing is certain— Lagos will never remain the same at the end of that 1,460 days, so says the Almighty. Lagos will see the level of development it has never seen before.” Sanwo-Olu said his vision is to bring righteousness, forthrightness and accountability to government, promising Lagosians that at the end of his stewardship, the state would have witnessed unprecedented growth and development. Sanwo-Olu, who assisted the church to unveil tricycles bought for reformed street urchins, popularly called Area boys, but renamed Jesus Boys, thanked the church for the gesture and promised to collaborate with it to ensure that the reformative efforts are sustained. Earlier, the Senior Pastor of House on the Rock and Convener of the Experience Lagos, Pastor Paul Adefarasin said in addition to praising and worshipping God, the programme has been a platform to pray for peace and sustainable development of Nigeria and for justice, truth and equity to prevail within its borders. A new logo for the Experience was unveiled, while Pastor Adefarasin also called for a minute silence in honour of the first administrator and Governor of the State, Brigadier-General Mobolaji Johnson, who died about a month ago. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .