Former Nigeria Senate President Bukola Saraki Saturday said Kwara State Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq crossed the line of decency for taking over his family land. Saraki in a statement accused AbdulRazaq of using his office to allegedly erase the legacies of his late father, Abubakar Olusola Saraki, who was a former  governor of the state. Kwara State Government on Friday announced that it has revoked the ownership of plots of land owned by Olusola  Saraki. The properties are located at Plots 1, 3 and 5 Ilofa Road, GRA, Ilorin popularly known as Ile Arugbo. The governor’s spokesman Rafiu Ajakaye said the land was originally meant for Government Secretariat and parking space for the Civil Service Clinic, but was unlawfully allocated to a private firm, Asa Investments Limited, without any record of payment to the state government. Ajakaiye said a new secretariat would be built on the land. Saraki, however, said the government’s action was clearly a manifestation of vengeance which shows that the AbdulRazaq is not out to serve any public purpose or pursue any development agenda. “In his narrow-mindedness, he believes his victory at the polls is an empowerment, entitlement and enablement to settle scores, provoke and pursue inter-family rivalry,” Saraki said. Saraki disclosed that prior to the government taking over the properties, the governor had invited all the members of the State House of Assembly and directed them to commence the process of amending the law to change the name of the State University which the last administration renamed after Abubakar Olusola Saraki. The former Senate president accused AbdulRazaq’s government of prioritising his fight against his Saraki’s legacies over governance. “Those who voted for the party in power in Kwara State and Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq obviously did not vote for the man to enable him wage war against Dr. Olusola Saraki and his legacies. They expected development and fulfillment of promises,” Saraki said. Saraki insisted that the property had been rightfully allocated to his late father under the name of one of his companies, Asa Investment Limited, since the 1980s with a Right of Occupancy title issued on it. He said AbdulRazaq’s claims “holds no water since it is clear that this is the height of his vengeance against my father, Dr. Abubakar Olusola Saraki and I.” Saraki said the governor’s decision to undermine and wage a war of attrition against his father by revoking the ownership of the land is beyond his comprehension. He said the war against the “Sarakis will not successfully veil his unpreparedness for governance and divert people’s attention from the glaring lack of visionary, clear-cut plan to deliver on his empty promises to the people.” “He definitely cannot get away with all the atrocities he has been committing.” He advised Abdulrazaq to devote his time and energy to providing good governance and genuine development to residents of the state.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .