 QS Mohammed Abba Tor, FNIQS becomes President of NIQS  Speaking after his investiture at the 28th biennial conference and general meeting in Lagos, Abba Tor pledged to build upon the lofty legacies left behind by his predecessor. Other officers elected into the NIQS executive council include a former Lagos State Chairman of the Institute, Mr. Olayemi Shonubi who is the President-elect (Deputy President), Mr. Kene Nzekwe, Vice President and Aminu Bashir Mohammed, Secretary-General. Abba Tor who noted that the quantity surveying profession has undergone tremendous evolution in the last three decades due to globalisation, technological advancement and changing needs of employers in both the public and private sectors, explained that “it is imperative for the profession to continue adapting to the emerging challenges in order for us to remain relevant in today’s market place”. He observed that despite all the efforts made towards promoting quantity surveying in Nigeria, “we still have a long way to go in projecting the functions and duties of a quantity surveyor beyond just producing bill of quantities, preparing a valuation of works done and final accounts”. He promised to embark on an aggressive marketing strategy to make the profession better known to all Nigerians. “Marketing efforts shall be customized to target each segment of our market and stakeholders. Advocacy visits to government agencies organised private establishments and media houses will be pursued with vigour. We will continue to re-skill our competencies to offer total cost management and other ancillary services beginning from project initiation through planning, implementation, monitoring, and closure,“ he said. The new NIQS boss also promised to rebrand the Institute for sustainable growth and development, The NIQS president promised to collaborate with international sister organizations in the areas of capacity building, knowledge sharing and technological transfer. Similarly, Abba Tor pledged to collaborate with other built environment professions to develop the nation’s construction industry. Chairman of the occasion, Alhaji Mohammed Hayatu-Deen who noted the huge infrastructural deficit in the country called on quantity surveyors to ensure that the scarce resources available are used to bridge the gap are carefully and efficiently. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .