 Governor Dapo Abiodun and Commissioner of Police, Mr Kenneth Ebrimson in a briefing on the current security situation in the State and the preparation of the State Police Command for the Yuletide.  The Commissioner of Police (CP), Kenneth Ebrimson, made this known while fielding questions from newsmen at the governor’s office, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta, shortly after a closed-door meeting between the police management team in the state and the governor.Ebrimson said his team had gone to brief the governor on measures being put in place by the command to fortify the state’s security architecture.He noted that Operation Restore Hope would last for two weeks. The period, he said, would be more than sufficient to comb every nook and cranny of the state to smoke criminals out of their hide-outs, as well as recover arms and other stolen goods.His words, “The exercise will last for two weeks. It will ensure that armed robbers, kidnappers and cultists have no place to operate during this yuletide. “It will also give the police the advantage of working ahead of the criminals by arresting them and recovering arms and stolen goods. Anybody that will hinder the security architecture of the state will be rooted out,” he said.To ensure that the state is secured during the festive season, the command has come up with a ‘Community Policing Information Network’, he disclosed. Also, The Guardian learnt that a policing information pamphlet containing the phone numbers of the CP, tactical and area commanders, divisional police officers and other principal officers in the state would be released immediately for ease of reference. The CP assured the citizens that all the principal officers would be out to ensure high visibility and physical policing, so that at every point, policemen can be seen securing the state.He noted that the major task before the command was to have a secured state that would allow the people of the state sleep peacefully. The police boss urged the people to make use of the information boxes available in the divisions and area commands to give information whenever they suspect criminal intentions.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .