The Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai, on Tuesday inaugurated the newly office complex for the Nigerian Army Resource Centre (NARC) in Abuja. While inaugurating the complex, Buratai said that NARC has become a service think-tank with national and global outlook. He commended the centre for achieving its mandate of providing research based solution to national security issues. Buratai added that the centre collaborates with relevant agencies to organise seminars and workshops on national security as well as organise courses in different areas. According to him, NARC is also collaborating with global institutions such as Kings College London, United Services of India and Harvard Kennedy School, US as well as Royal United Services Institute in London to carry out research. “It is gratifying to be here to see the progress that has been made not only in the physical structure but indeed in the academic and intellectual exercise that has been carried out here at the resource centre. “The collaboration of the centre within the short time of its establishment with both national and international institutions is highly commendable,“ he said. Buratai pledged to handover the Nigerian Army Museum to the centre when the new one at Muhamnadu Buhari Cantonment in Giri, Abuja is completed. Earlier, the Director General of NARC, Retired Maj.-Gen. Garba Wahab, said that the centre had worked tirelessly to deliver on its mandate. Wahab commended the Chief of Army Staff and board of trustees of the centre for their continuous support for the centre and provision of a befitting new office complex. He said that the management and staff of the centre were committed to ensuring that the centre would be at par with other global research centres. Wahab, however, called on Buratai to provide for support to enable NARC become a leading centre of excellence with the capacity to generate ideas toward addressing issues of defence and security. He said the NARC complex would drive the core value of which the centre was established which is optimising Nigerian national security. According to him, the new office complex project, which started in February, is equipped with world class facilities with capacity to provide research based solutions. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the former Minister of Interior and Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Abdulrahman Dambazau (rtd), Amb. Babagana Kingigbe and Sen. Ben Bruce were some of the dignitaries at the event.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .