Dermatosis Neglecta | Healthline Allergic Reactions: Different people are allergic to different skin irritants, it could range from nail polish, soapy water, nickel, latex, solvents, and detergents. Nail-biting: Before you take the next bite of your nails out of habit, keep in mind that nail-biting can make skin cuticles, and nails ill. The damaged cuticles can result in a skin infection of which skin peeling is one. Finger or thumb sucking: A persistent habit of a finger or thumb sucking causes dry skin and leads to peeling. Hence, it is also commonly seen in an infant or toddler. Nutritional deficiency: A deficiency of vitamin or calcium can cause your dryness of the skin and this makes it prone to flake or peel off. Due to various skin diseases: Various skin diseases also cause skin peeling around the nails. Psoriasis, eczema, and dyshidrosis are the most common cause of it. Eczema is an inflammation of the skin which results in dry, and itchy skin which ultimately leads to skin peeling whereas psoriasis targets the life cycle of the skin cells, and causes a rapid buildup of cells on the surface of their skin, leading to the formation of patches, and scales. Dyshidrosis is a rare skin problem in which fluid-filled blisters are formed on sides of the fingers which can also lead to skin peeling around nails. Chronic infection: Bacterial or fungal infection (caused by moisture) can also lead to the peeling of skin around the cuticle. Excessive handwashing: You have probably been told that handwashing helps to keep you healthy but constant washing hands of the hand with soap can hamper the lipid barrier of skin which can cause the soap to absorb into sensitive layers of skin, leading to irritation, and peeling. Using products with harsh chemicals: Handling of certain chemical products added to soaps, shampoos, and other beauty products may cause skin irritation and peel off the skin around the fingertips. Weather changes: Dry climate or winter season can often lead to dry, cracked, and peeling skin. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.