 Aminu Gwadabe  Connecting BDCs
Financial pundits have continued to give reasons why BDCs should be brought into the Diaspora remittance business. For instance, financial institutions’ long procedures, complicated forms, and history of poor service quality means BDCs are needed to deepen the market.
 
The BDCs segment of the market operates in a simple manner while remaining closer to the people needing the remittance funds. “BDCs buy foreign currency from remittance recipients and sell it to Nigerians who want to travel abroad. The reason for establishing these institutions in 1989 was to broaden the forex market and improve accessibility to hard currency.
 
“The CBN supervises and issues operational guidelines for BDCs. In March 2006, Nigeria had 293 licensed BDCs which have risen to over 4,500 operators today. This development means that BDCs are willing and ready to do the remittance business,” Gwadabe said.He explained that money senders want their beneficiaries to get a favorable exchange rate and more value in the local currency and such can only be achieved in a competitive market where recipients have several options, including BDCs.
 
Gwadabe said  a coherent policy framework to harness remittances into generating capital for productive investments for the growth and development of small and micro-enterprises, which will in turn, create employment was required.
 
In addition, remittances can be deployed toward philanthropic activities which can serve as solutions for specific deficiencies in the local infrastructure such as schools, hospitals and roads. For him, remittances are on track to become the largest source of external financing in developing countries and Nigeria cannot be left behind. VAT exemption
ABCON said VAT charge is the bigger problem confronting operators, as a large part of their income go into paying taxes. But it has appointed Mike Akinfolarin & Associates as Consultant/Tax Attorneys on VAT, adding that in other economies, foreign exchange rate control by government is VAT exempt.
 
“The law company made a representation on behalf of ABCON before the  National Assembly public hearing, House Committee on Finance Bill on November 25, 2019, in Abuja. And that remains the position of ABCON,” he said.But also speaking on Diaspora remittances, the Director-General of the West African Institute for Financial and Economic Management (WAIFEM), Dr. Baba Musa, explained that in economics, Diaspora remittances are called non-debt creating flow, which comes in like Foreign Direct Investment (FDI).He said that Diaspora remittances remain crucial in economic development, but there was need to look at how they are coming in, adding that the source of many of the funds are never known, hence the need to broaden the remittance channels. Exchange rate stance
ABCON has also defended CBN policy on foreign exchange allocation to BDCs, which it believes has stabilised the naira against the dollar.However, the association has faulted ongoing petition against the CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele and its management team over the deployment of dual exchange rate regime in forex allocation.He faulted the N305/$ rate to BDC as proposed by the petitioner, saying it is not transactional rate, but used for settling government obligations.
 
“There is a case against the CBN Governor and his management team written by Bar. J.U Ayogu. A petition before the Senate was laid on December 12, 2019 where Bar. J. U Ayogu, Esq, on behalf of the Bureaux De Change Operators of Nigeria wrote against the CBN over its dual exchange rate forex policy that enriches few Nigerians and its top management staff to the detriment of many lawful Nigerians and frustrating the policy of the present administration of eradicating poverty and unemployment from all the nooks and crannies of Nigeria,” Member, Senate Committee on Finance, Senator Ayo Akinyelure (PDP, Ondo Central) said.
 
But ABCON Management, said the CBN forex policy has brought stability to the BDC industry and helped operators to embrace automation which is the standard best practice globally.“This is hand work of unknown faces, not ABCON. It is confrontational and lack credible evidence. ABCON submission to the National Assembly is on Value Added Tax (VAT) exemption and downward review of licence fee renewal submitted to the CBN. The petitioner was never at any time appointed to speak on behalf of BDCs,” Gwadabe said.He disclosed that no BDC or service provider gets forex at N305 to dollar and that the petitioner’s claim is completely false.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .