The Technical Director of the Handball Federation of Nigeria (HFN), Ferdinand Emeana, has said that the federation is yet to secure enough funds for the forthcoming Nations Cup holding between January 16 and 31, in Tunis, Tunisia, next year. Emeana, who stated that the players have been in close camping since December 1, declared that the programme was to enable the players have a befitting preparation before they embark on a playing tour of Europe by the end of December. “There is close camping that was opened on December 1 for the players, who are now training at the Indoor Sports Hall of the Mobolaji Johnson Sports Centre, Rowe Park, Yaba Lagos. “The players train two times a day except when the coaches’ programme changes. Their training is very intensive and all of them are committed and are determined. “I hope by the end of this month they will be going on a playing tour of Europe, because we don’t want to leave any stone unturned,” he said, adding that the federation was still trying to secure funds from the sports ministry to enable them prepare well ahead of the Nations Cup. “We are still expecting other logistics like funding to support the federation. So far, I don’t think we have gotten enough funds needed yet. But the president is trying to work out things, I think he is discussing with the minister on that. This is the much I can tell you on that for now,” he said. While responding to whether Prudent Energy was contacted for support in preparation towards the Nations Cup, the HFN Technical Director stated that the energy giant only agreed to sponsor the federation’s league. “What the Prudent Energy does for us is to sponsor our league. So, if they will support us here, that will be a kind of assistance. And I don’t think they have done anything as regards that so far. I am sure the president is doing his best as regards those that might want to come to our aid,” he stated. It will be recalled that the country finished last at the 2018 edition of the Nations Cup held in Libreville, Gabon due to inadequate preparation caused by paucity of funds. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .