BBNaija Stars Khafi And Gedoni Are Engaged | Instagram: Khafi Kareem Two months after the Big Brother Nigeria reality show, former housemates of Big Brother Nigeria Khafi Kareem and Gedoni Ekpata are engaged. Gedoni proposed on Christmas Day while the lovers were on a vacation in Cape Verde. Khafi announced the news of the proposal in a post on her Instagram page. In the image, Khafi and Gedoni are captured in an embrace with Gedoni’s back to the camera while Khafi held out a paper which read “I SAID YES” “Oh and I got the best Christmas gift ever.  #MrsEkpataLoading.” She captioned the image.   Oh, and I got the best Christmas gift ever  #MrsEkpataLoading A post shared by  Khafi Kareem (A Cup Of Khafi) (@acupofkhafi) on Dec 25, 2019 at 4:00pm PST  One of the most talked about highlight of the BBNaija 2019 “Pepper Dem” show was the romantic relationship between Khafi and Gedoni. During their stint on the show, the pair were inseparable which earned them the nickname “Khadoni” from fans and viewers of the show. In the post-eviction interview, Khafi said she bonded with Gedoni in the first week because they were both up for eviction. She told Ebuka that she believes he loves her as much she loves him, adding that she was a forlorn lover when he was evicted. Their romance was not without controversy as it was debated whether the couple were sexually active during the show or not.
Khafi who revealed to Gedoni that she has been celibate for eight years was first captured in a sexual act with Gedoni on Saturday, July 20, then again on Tuesday, July 23, and again on Monday, July 29. When asked to address the sex rumours, Gedoni told Ebuka that he was unhappy that the rumour went viral and felt terrible about it as it is unfounded. He added, “I think I will allow Khafi to ask whether we had sex or not. There were intense moments but sex, no.” She refuted the sex claims. After the conclusion of the show, Khafi confirmed their relationship and called Gedoni the “salt of her life”. Gedoni is the salt to my life —- khafi 2019!! Dat was deep !! Who is cutting onions  pic.twitter.com/msfaFyN3la — KhaDoni Voltron  (@ronkyco) October 14, 2019 