Mimiko urges Nigerians to remember the needy
Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has commended Lagos, Kaduna, Kebbi, Adamawa and Jigawa states for beginning the implementation of the N30,000 new minimum wage. The umbrella body of Nigerian workers also threatened to send unfriendly Christmas gift to states that were yet to commence the negotiation of consequential agreement of the new wage. In his Christmas message in Abuja yesterday, the president of NLC, Ayuba Wabba, urged Nigerian political leaders to rededicate themselves to the progress and peace of the nation. His words: “We commend the Federal Government and the governments of Kaduna, Kebbi, Lagos and Adamawa and Jigawa states for concluding negotiations with workers and for implementing the payment of the new national minimum wage and consequential salary adjustment for workers.” Wabba noted the message of Christmas as joy to the world and peace to men and women of goodwill, explaining that “the central appeal of Jesus Christ remains love, joy, peace and goodwill.” At Christmas, he said, God reminds humanity that the best life is that which gives love, joy, peace and goodwill to others. The NLC encouraged Nigerian pensioners and workers to take some Christmas moments to savour the joy that their toil brought to millions of their compatriots. Meanwhile, the immediate past governor of Ondo State, Dr. Olusegun Mimiko, has enjoined Nigerians to remember the needy in the society during their merriment this festive season. This, according to the former governor, is the only way to accord proper meaning to the celebration of the birth of Jesus Christ. Mimiko, in a statement issued to journalists in Akure yesterday by his Special Assistant on Media, JohnPaul Akinduro, said the celebration of Christmas should be seen by all as an opportunity to share and exhibit love for one another. “As we celebrate the birth of Christ with families and friends, let us remember the needy. We must uphold the very values Jesus taught and embodied by sharing with others and caring for those on society’s margins – the sick, the poor and the hungry.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .