 Minister of Police Affairs, Muhammad Dingyadi (left); Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State; President Muhammadu Buhari; Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr. Boss Mustapha; Inspector General of Police, Muhammad Adamu and Chairman, Senate Committee on Police, Senator Haliru Jika during the commissioning of newly acquired Police operational/combat vehicles and database centres at the Force Headquarters, Abuja…yesterday    								     PHOTO: PHILIP OJISUA  The President also commissioned the newly acquired 139 Hilux patrol vehicles including 46 Police Smart Surveillance (CCTV Camera-on-the Move) vehicles, 11 Tactical Operations vehicles fitted with state-of-the-art surveillance equipment; nine Armoured Personnel Carriers; five Troop Carriers and seven Anti-Riot Water Cannon Trucks. Speaking at the event yesterday, President Buhari commended the police for investing in technologies and infrastructure to combat crimes. He, however, urged the leadership of the force to avoid complacencies in the efforts towards ridding the country of crimes.“Security of lives and property of Nigerians is a constitutional obligation. Hence this remains a top priority in the agenda of our administration, and the police are central to the process of meeting this obligation. “I have always prioritised the police as a critical agency in the internal security architecture of our country.Despite successes recorded, I charge the police leadership to avoid complacencies in the efforts towards ridding the country of crimes,” the President said. Speaking further, Buhari reiterated the position of his administration to ensure a motivated police force, adding: “My vision is to bequeath our nation a legacy of reformed, modernised, fully equipped and a highly motivated police force that is re-orientated to the virtues of professionalism, respect of rule of law. “In cognisance of that, I approved the readjustment of police emoluments as well as the recruitments of 10,000 extra police personnel on an annual basis to motivate and enhance the manpower of the force.” In his remarks, the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, said the vehicles would be deployed for real-time electronic monitoring of the Abuja-Kaduna highway and other major highways and vulnerable locations across the country including the electronic surveillance of NNPC pipelines. He stated: “The patrol vehicles, on the other hand, will be utilised to strengthen the Safer Highway Patrol scheme, while the Tactical and Armoured Personnel Carriers will be used for special police operations especially, in support of our anti-banditry, anti-kidnapping and anti-robbery operations. “The Water Cannon Trucks shall be deployed for the management of civil disorders within the dictates of our democratic values, rule of law and international best practices. The police chief explained that the Nigeria Police National Command and Control Centre (NPF-C4i) would enhance effective operational coordination and real-time monitoring of situations via video link between the Force Headquarters, Abuja and all the 36 State Police Commands and the FCT. “Similarly, the Nigeria Police Crime and Incident Data Base (NPC & IDB) Centre is to aid the Nigeria Police in acquiring a credible electronic criminal data base to support criminal investigation and strategic operational and tactical planning,” the IGP added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .