“If your actions inspire others to dream more, learn more, do more and become more, you are a leader.” – John Quincy Adams It was on a Wednesday evening, I was reminiscing on the outcome of the political intrigues in Zamfara State, on how the All Progressives Congress (APC) lost the chance of forming the government at the state, the failure was hinged on the schemings among the APC aspirants in the gubernatorial elections which enabled the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) secure victory without firing a shot – through the court pronouncement. I wanted to have a chat with Dr Dauda, who incidentally like me, graduated from the prestigious Ahmadu Bello University (ABU). I reached out to Femi, his responsive aide for a chance of having an appointment with him, wanted to use the opportunity to discuss politics in his state and other topical national issues in the country. I was glad when the aide informed me of a time for the rendezvous with Dr Dauda, who I call the financial Mozart, walked into his office and met him waiting for me with a steamy cup of tea in his hand, the atmosphere around him could be aptly described as serene, and reassuring, alongside his radiant mien. Most notably, Dr Lawal Dauda, is the former Executive Director, Public Sector, North of First Bank Plc. Born to a humble family in Gusau, Dauda obtained a degree in Political Science from Ahamdu Bello University, Zaria in 1987. He bagged an https://t.co/KrzDyORMB9 in 1992 from the same ivy league. He completed the academic cycle by obtaining an honorary PhD in Public Administration from Usman Danfodiyo University, Sokoto. Always daring for more, he transversed various continents, honing his business skills in some of the world’s prestigious learning centers like Havard Business School, Boston, London School of Economics, London Business School, Wharton Business School, Pennsylvania, Lagos Business School among others. He is a fellow of a number of reputable professional bodies like Institute of Credit Administration of Nigeria and the Civilian Institute of Democratic Administration of Ghana, African Business Roundtable, to mention a few. Starting out as a Political Education Officer with the defunct Mass Mobilization for Self Reliance Social Justice and Econimic Recovery MAMSER, a policy of political orientation in Nigeria implemented by the Babaginda regime in 1987. MAMSER was eventually renamed National Orientation Agency with a huge presence spanning across all 774 local governments in Nigeria. Dauda moved on to Westex Nigeria Limited where he worked as the AGM. His career path took him to the Nigerian Embassy in Washington DC and he became part of the team which reorganized the consular unit for Nigerians to have confidence in sending their passport for visa processing, he rose to the position of chief protocol officer before retiring for a more daunting task. Looking for something challenging he decided to return to Nigeria and had various offers; either to work with the Port authority or the banking sector, he choose the latter, a tough terrain but with sheer determination he understood the pathway of the banking sector with training here and there, growing from a manger to the exalted position of Executive Director. When I asked him why he joined the Governorship race – he quipped “I got into politics trying to reform Zamfara state, I contested to try and change the economic fortunes of the state. It was my first time joining politics, I’m happy that even though I did not win, my campaign was able to raise the bar in the political history of the state”. He always wanted something challenging, in an opinion poll conducted online, he resonated more with the youth than other aspirants. As valuable as it, Dauda is a man who has over years, maintained the relationship he has with his people in Zamfara. He is a philanthropist through and through, his continuous work of philanthropy has placed him above his peers, signifying his ability to help his people and the willingness to do more with a larger platform. He built hostels at the School of Health Technology, Tsafe. He dualised a road at the Federal University Gusau and built classrooms for School of Nursing in Tsafe. He has instituted a number of schemes that benefited SME’s. His commitment to a better learning environment for students spurred him into donating lecture halls to his former department in ABU. One thing about Dauda is his passion to serve the people made him contest the governorship post in Zamfara state. He did not scale the last hurdle but that has not stopped him from service to humanity. For Dauda, acts of philanthropy are not seasonal. To be human is to feel the pains of other humans. This sentience has guided him throughout his life.
 
Conversely, debating on national issues we delved into the border closure, code-named ‘Exercise Swift Response’, through which Nigeria Customs Service generates N8billion daily. He seems to align with the border closure by the Federal Government, noting that Nigeria is a dominate player in the African economy and our population serves as a comparative advantage – he interjects that “Benin Republic accounts for 40% of cars coming into Nigeria”. On rice, he spoke of governments incentives for our local farmers through the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN Anchors Borrowers Programme, a formidable polices of government ensuring food security. On revenue generation, he believes there are so many avenues to generate revenue, from traffic rules in big cities such as Abuja, Lagos, to vehicle registrations and simultaneously licenses given, can also be used to generate funds, and combat insecurity. He’s of the opinion that the private sectors need to come in managing the roads and applauded the re-introduction of electronic toll gates in the country as extra form of generating revenue and maintaining our roads, stakeholders need to compliment governments efforts to build strong institutions for the benefit of the country. Finally, passing the baton to the younger generation and those who look up to him as a role mode, he stated the three key habits towards success as; honesty, hard work and determination – in his words, “if you combine these you would make a career in anything you set out for”. Ayobami Ismail Akanji is a public affairs analyst and writes from Abuja To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .