PHOTO: GETTYIMAGES The Internet has become the most reliable source of information, interaction, commerce and entertainment in today’s world. Through its pervasive nature it has been widely accepted by the society as a help tool, students inclusive. Though it has affected a lot of lives both positively and negatively, but for students across the country it is a great platform for e-learning, networking, communication, business, information and so much more. However, the rise of the social media; the newborn of the Internet has struck many undergraduates with the “couch potato” syndrome, feeding fat on their productivity. Relishing her Internet experience, a student from the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN), Agugua-Ubochi Promise, said it has been of immense help particularly in the university community. She also said that the e-library is on of the Internet benefits for undergraduates as it reduces the stress of a student having to work through bookshelves especially if they have no knowledge of library and information skills. “Then, personally it has made studies easier for me, ranging from assignments to term papers and research works.” For Ukachukwu Success, a student of the University of Abuja, the Internet has created a platform for multiple opportunities for those who wish to help themselves. “As an undergraduate, I make an honest living from advertising my wears on the Internet and most of my customers are from the Internet,” he said. A student of Gateway Polytechnic, Ogun State, Alatise Zainab, said the Internet is a help tool. “With the help of the Internet, my vocabulary has improved and I get easy access to as much information as I require.” A student of Yaba College of Technology (YABATECH), Gbemisola Alatise, revealed that the Internet through the social media has enhanced her interactivity with friends and family from far and wide. Despite the huge advantage of the Internet to human and societal growth, it has wrought more evil as its applicability has been misused severally. The harrowing issues of cyber crimes and moral decadence is greatly affecting the users of the Internet who are mostly young persons particularly undergraduates. This open platform has created way for bullying, viewing of pornographic and violent images, identity theft, hacking and more. Speaking on these shortcomings, Miracle Obi, a student from Michael Okpara University of Agriculture, Umudike (MOUAU), expressed worry that most students have given into excessive chatting, online streaming and fraud. “Many students now spend longer hours on frivolous things as opposed to what it should be used for. It has its pros and cons, the onus is one students to decide what they want,” she said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .