 Governor Ganduje (middle) presenting award to veteran actor Sadiq Daba at the BON Award ceremony in Kano  The commercial city of Kano came alive recently, as notable movie stars and practitioners in the entertainment industry stormed the ancient city for the 2019 edition of Best of Nollywood Award (BON). Held inside the Coronation Hall of the Kano State Government, the glamorous event, which was hosted by Kannywood star, Maryam Ado Mohammed aka Maryam Booth and Gbenga Adeyinka 1st, was attended by top officials of the Kano State Government led by Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje. Unlike some host governor, who would send a representative, Ganduje participated fully at the award ceremony that lasted into the early hours of the following day; he saw the show till end. Highpoint of the night was the presentation of Lifetime Achievement Awards to veteran actor and broadcaster Abubakar Sadiq Daba. While making presenting to the ailing actor, Gov. Ganduje appreciated the immense talent of the honouree, as well as his contribution to the industry. While congratulating Daba, a Kano State native, for the well deserving recognition, he also made a donation of N1million to the seasoned actor on behalf of the State Government.Expressing his delight at hosting the award ceremony for 2019, the Governor said, “This is history for the good people of Kano State.” Meanwhile, Tade Ogidan’s Gold Statue and its lead actor, Gabriel Afolayan emerged the biggest winners as both clinched the coveted Movie of the Year and Best Actor of the Year’ respectively.The film, which also earned Ogidan the honour of Director of the Year, as well got the award for the Movie with the Best Production Design, Film With The Best Use of Sound and Best Use of Make-up in a Movie to make the total haul of six awards. Femi Adebayo’s movie Diamond In The Sky also won two awards – Movie With The Best Editing and Movie with the Best Cinematography. The movie, Majele also scooped two awards – Movie With the Best Screenplay and Best Use of Costume in a Movie. Other winners at the ceremony, which was spiced with musical performance by the likes of Eedris Abdulkareem are Tamara Etaimo, who emerged the Best Actress in a Leading Role (English) for her role in the movie Thick Skinned; Ibrahim Yekini, Best Actor in a Leading Role (Yoruba) for his role in The Return of Kesari; Adebimpe Oyebade, Best Actress in a Leading Role (Yoruba) in the movie 0707; Abba Elmustapha, Best Actor in a Leading Role (Hausa) in the movie, Hauwa Kulu; and Hadiza Gabon and Hassana Muhammad, Best Actress in a Leading Role (Hausa) in the movie, Hauwa Kulu. It would be recalled that upon receiving the host right for BON 2019, Gov. Ganduje instituted a committee to cater to the growth of Nollywood in Kano State. It was the committee that eventually worked with the organisers of the Best Of Nollywood to host the successful event. This year’s award had the support of Kano State Government, PAN Automobile, Max Air and LaCasera.First held on December 6, 2009, Best of Nollywood Awards (BON Awards) is an annual film event presented by Best of Nollywood Magazine, honouring outstanding achievement in the Nigerian movie industry.