 Gbenga Ogunbote  The Ortom boys, who are hosting the match day eight fixture of the NPFL, are fifth on the table, having played six matches, won three, drew two and lost one, thereby amassing 11 points. While the Ochendo Babes are 10th on the log after two victories, four draws and a loss out of seven games played and with 10 points. Speaking to The Guardian yesterday, Ogunbote, who confessed that the game would be a tough one, however, waved the threat of the Aba-based team aside, adding that his boys would triumph at the end of the battle. “I know that every game at this stage is usually a tough one and I am not shying away from that. All I know is that with the way things are going on, we will work harder against our opponent. “We have done all that we needed and we are hoping we will get a positive result at the end of the day. I know they are tough, but I don’t think they are going to stand in our way to getting the three maximum points without any disrespect to them. “There is always a first time that you want to break a jinx and continue to win and win,” he said, adding that the players were also ready to achieve the club’s dream.  On the chances of the club winning this season’s league, the former coach of Rangers International of Enugu stated that it was too early to assess his team’s ambition, saying there was still work in progress. “It is still early to form an opinion on my team’s ambition so far. Before now, Lobi Stars had been one of the ambitious teams in the NPFL, which have always wanted to win laurels. And you expect that to continue this season as former winner. We still have the same ambition and we are beginning to see it unfold now. “Lastly, I will like to appeal to our fans to come en masse and watch their darling team play on Sunday (today). I sincerely appreciate them for their support so far and I want to tell them that victory is assured come Sunday and we shall put smiles on their faces by the grace of God,” he stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .