 Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky looks on during a joint press conference with Sweden’s Prime Minister following their talks in Kiev on December 4, 2019. (Photo by Sergei SUPINSKY / AFP)  During his inauguration in May, the 41-year-old former comedian urged people with Ukrainian heritage to return home and help build a “new, strong and successful Ukraine”. Speaking in a video address published on his Facebook page late Tuesday, Zelensky unveiled the launch of a new state programme providing loans for those who wish to return and start a business in Ukraine. “Our country really needs your knowledge, talents and values,” Zelensky said. “We really want you to return home. Let’s build a successful and prosperous Ukraine,” he added. The initiative with the slogan “Come back and stay” is aimed at those already living abroad or contemplating leaving the poor, war-scarred country in search of a better life. More than 13,000 people have been killed in Ukraine’s conflict with Russian-backed separatists in the industrial east which broke out shortly after Moscow annexed Crimea in 2014. Under the new programme, loans of 1.5 million hryvnia ($63,000) with interest rates of between five and nine percent would be provided to those who want to start or expand a business in the ex-Soviet country, the Ukrainian president said. Zelensky said similar initiatives were in the pipeline. In addition to Ukraine’s 42 million citizens, many people with Ukrainian roots live abroad. “There are 65 million of us — those born on Ukrainian soil,” the newly elected Zelensky said in May, urging emigres and labour migrants to come home. “Ukrainians in Europe and Asia, in North and South America, Australia and Africa — I appeal to all Ukrainians on the planet!” According to a study published by Kiev’s Center for Economic Strategy in 2018, around four million Ukrainians, or 16 percent of the working-age population, are labour migrants. Over the past few years Poland has emerged as the most popular destination for Ukrainian guest workers. Some 2.5 million Ukrainians live in Russia. There is also a large Ukrainian community in Canada. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .