The Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Olamelakan Adegbite, has said the Federal Government is logically processing the return of the Russians for the completion, rehabilitation, and operation of the Ajaokuta Steel Plant, in Kogi state. Speaking yesterday at 2nd Stakeholders Forum in Kaduna, Adegbite explained that the deal is expecting to be concluded, and made functional before the end of the President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration. He urged the metal operators in Nigeria to work towards charting a way forward for the ailing industry, to ensure economic growth, industrialisation, and attendant job creation and wealth generation. The Minister, who was represented by his Media aide, Ayo Adeniyi, expressed optimism that the Forum will come out with resolutions and suggestions that will attract and guide the government in its policies for the sector. He said: “Government is aware of the key role of the metal sector in growing the economy; hence the Ministry’s strive to reposition it through stakeholders’ forum to brainstorm on development of Mining and Metal sector.” Adegbite, therefore, called on local and foreign investors to utilise the investment opportunities in the Steel sector to ensure its growth, assuring them of friendly and enabling environment. In his contribution, the Director, Metallurgical Inspectorate & Raw Materials Development, Victor Ihebinike, also encouraged all stakeholders to support the efforts of Government to revitalise the metal sector for national prosperity. He therefore, assured that the 9th Assembly would pass the Nigerian Metallurgical Industry Bill into law, to enable the Federal Government create conducive business environment for investment to the sector. At the Stakeholders’ Forum, the North-West executives of the Metallurgical Operators Association of Nigeria, was inaugurated with George Onyeacholam as the Chairman, and Haruna Leko as the Secretary General. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .