 Special Adviser to Ekiti State Governor on Federal Matters, Mr. Makinde Araoye; Commissioner for Youth and Sports Development, Mr. Michael Awopetu; Winner, Ikogosi 10km Marathon Race Elite Male Category, Sadjo Ismael; and Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi, at the award/cheque presentation to winners of the race, in Ikogosi- Ekiti, yesterday.  Cross River State-born Sadjo Ismael and Plateau State’s Rose Akuso, yesterday, emerged winners in the men and women categories at the maiden edition of Ikogosi 10km Marathon race held in Aramoko-Ekiti, Ekiti State. The race flagged off by the state Deputy Governor, Bisi Egbeyemi, saw Ismael win the men’s category in an impressive time of 30 mins, 40 seconds, while Plateau-born Adamu Shehu Mu’azu placed second in 31mins 22 seconds, and Oyebode Dada Samuel from Osun State finished third in 31mins 48 seconds. In the women’s class, Akuso held sway winning in a time of 36 mins 51 seconds, while David Abiye from Ondo State came second in 36 min 59 seconds, and Plateau State’s Oman Sale, who finished third. In the male indigene category, Shedowo Adewale finished first in 34 mins 51 secs, while Lawal Azeez came second in 35 mins 16 seconds and Arowolo Tunde came third with 36m, 17secs. The female indigene cadre was won by Adewole Hannah Jumoke from Ikere Ekiti in 38 mins 49 seconds, followed by Sehinde Favour (43mins 32 seconds) and Folorunso Fayokemi (44m, 38s), who took the third position. Winners in every category of the marathon race smiled home with N1 million each, while the first runners up got a prize of N500,000, and the second runners up N300,000. Governor Kayode Fayemi, who was the special guest of honour at the event, presented the winners with their prizes and congratulated all the participants for taking part in the race.He said said his administration would not only invest in the education and human capital development of the youth, but will continue to partner with relevant private sector players in providing them platforms to showcase their God-given talents. Fourteen year-old Dolapo Morakinyo from Oke Imesi-Ekiti, was the cynosure of all eyes as the youngest athlete in the race also got to the finish line.No fewer than 10 ambulances manned by health professionals were deployed on the Aramoko-Erinjiyan-Ikogosi route, while the police, officials of the Federal Road Safety Corps and the state’s peace corps provided security and crowd control along the route.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .