 FBI Director Christopher Wray testifies before a Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee hearing on threats to the homeland on Capitol Hill in Washington, U.S. November 5, 2019. REUTERS/Yuri Gripas  Trump accused Wray of downplaying the findings of a report issued Monday into the FBI’s opening of an investigation into Russian interference during Trump’s victorious 2016 election campaign. “With that kind of attitude, he will never be able to fix the FBI, which is badly broken,” Trump tweeted. The report by the Justice Department inspector general found there had been numerous procedural errors but said there was no political bias against Trump by law enforcement. Wray said the investigation had been underpinned by “adequate factual predication.” This starkly contradicts Trump’s claims that the investigation — which grew into a sprawling probe of multi-pronged Kremlin interference operations and Trump’s business links with Russia — was an “attempted coup.” Ignoring the report’s finding that there was no political motivation, Trump is instead focusing on the many procedural mistakes highlighted by the inspector general. “I don’t know what report current Director of the FBI Christopher Wray was reading, but it sure wasn’t the one given to me,” Trump tweeted. Trump has been at odds with much of the national security establishment since he took office and claims, without providing evidence, that a “deep state” is working against him. His attack on Wray and attempt to use the inspector general report as fuel for continued accusations of a “coup” come as the lower house of Congress is poised to impeach him on accusations that he tried to force Ukraine into embarrassing a political opponent back home. Wray took over at the FBI in 2017, replacing an acting director who had held the position since Trump’s firing of director James Comey in May that year, just as the Russia probe gathered steam. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .