National Director, Special Olympics Nigeria (SON), Naomi Ejobe (left); Board Member, SON, Udeme Ufot; Programme Officer for Technical Cooperation, Embassy of France in Nigeria, Helene Brosseau; Ambassador of France to Nigeria, Jerome Pasquier and Head of Cooperation and Cultural Affairs, Embassy of France in Nigeria, Rafael Pont, at the grand finals of Sports for Hope competition sponsored by the Embassy of France in Lagos…at the weekend. Team Mushin and Team Oshodi at the weekend emerged champions in the football and volleyball events respectively of this year’s Special Olympics Nigeria Sports for Hope project held at the Campos Mini Stadium, Lagos Island. In the final of the football event, Team Mushin defeated Team Agege 1-0 to win the tournament, while Bariga beat Ajegunle 4-3 on penalties to claim the third position after the match had ended 0-0 in regulation time. In the volleyball event, Team Oshodi triumphed over Surulere to win this year’s championship, while Team Ikorodu settled for the third position as it overpowered Team Isolo. The competition, Sports for Hope Project for Intellectually Disables Persons, is a community initiative of Special Nigeria Olympics and was sponsored by the Embassy of France. The initiative was launched in August 2019 and has created avenues for inclusion, empowerment, and positive lifestyle choices. Speaking on the event, the Embassy of France in Nigeria Ambassador, Jerome Pasquier, said France was happy to assist in organising the event, adding that he hoped the partnership would endure for years. “We are very happy to help organise this event because sports is a very good means of creating link between communities genders, and young people with intellectual disabilities, and sports is also very good at creating an atmosphere of friendship and cooperation. “Sports is something we are pushing for and we are happy to do this in Nigeria. I hope the partnership will last and this year’s event has been a big success and I hope it will develop and have the real Olympics in Lagos and not only the Special Olympics,” he said, adding that the partnership with Special Nigeria Olympics has been a good one. “I hope they will do more, do the job themselves and we will be there to help them,” he stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .