 Lagos State Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Moyosore Onigbanjo (left); the Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu; Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu; his deputy, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat; Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG), Zone 2, Ahmed Iliasu; and Head of Service, Hakeem Muri-Okunola, during the commissioning of Area ‘L’ Police Command, Ilashe in Lagos… at the weekend  Speaking at the commissioning of Area ‘L’ Police Command Headquarters, Ilashe (a riverine area), at the weekend, Sanwo-Olu said part of the pillars of his administration was to provide adequate security of lives and property for the people and that he would not relent in doing such. He urged the security forces to discharge their duties with decorum and professionalism, and not in a manner to molest innocent people. Responding, the Commander of Area ‘L’, Ben Osuji, who applauded the state government for the facility, noted that since the establishment of the command, it had been operating from an outpost provided by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Learning Centre, Satellite Town. According to the Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP), policing a riverine area requires security measures that suit the terrain, stressing that the area was prone to infiltration of criminal elements, which keeps officers and men on their toes. The Commissioner of Police (CP), Hakeem Odumosu, assured the governor of adequate security in the state. Meanwhile, Sanwo-Olu has identified sustainable development of the state’s potential in aquaculture and its value chain as a driver for economic growth that will not only create jobs and contribute to poverty reduction but would also unleash entrepreneurship opportunities. The governor, who spoke at the 2019 Lagos Seafood Festival in Lagos yesterday, noted that within the agricultural value chain, there was potential for increased production towards the attainment of the state’s food security objective, foreign exchange, and gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth. Represented by his deputy, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, the governor pointed out that the state government initiated several projects in the agricultural space to drive these objectives. He stressed that the state was endowed with the natural landscape and that beautiful beaches and waterfronts covered 22 per cent of it. “These unique endowments give the state comparative advantage in the seafood and tourism business, which are yearning to be harnessed and developed for the socio-economic transformation of the state. I urge you all to avail yourselves the opportunities presented by this gathering to network and initiate partnerships that will promote food security, create jobs and enhance livelihoods in the state, while enjoying yourselves at this festival,” Sanwo-Olu noted. Earlier, the Commissioner for Agriculture, Gbolahan Lawal pointed out that show business is major activities in the State which provide employment for youths and significantly contribute to the growth of the State’s GDP and the well-being of its people through the creation of an atmosphere for relaxation and enjoyment. He added that the industry is expected to generate revenue of USD88 Million with a positive impact on the economy and provide a lee way for the much-needed diversification of sources of foreign exchange earnings aside income from the sales of crude oil.
Lawal added that the celebration of the Lagos Seafood Festival would boost the development of the creative industry and promote the visibility of the State as a tourist destination in alignment with the Entertainment and Tourism Pillar of the State Government’s THEMES developmental agenda of the State Government. “In accordance with the theme of this year’s festival, the rich seafood diversity of the State will be projected through the display of various fresh, processed and wide varieties of seafood based dishes by our exhibitors. This is strengthened by the fact that fishing is the main occupation of the people living in the coastal zones and along with the vast lagoon network of the State,” the Commissioner averred. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .