 Lagos State Deputy Governor, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat (left); Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu; Special Adviser on Works and Infrastructure, Mrs. Aramide Adeyoye; Chairman, Ojokoro LCDA, Ahmed Tijani; and Chairman, Ifako-Ijaiye Council, Usman Hamzat, during the commissioning of the network of 31 Strategic Roads in Ojokoro, Ifako-Ijaiye in Lagos…yesterday.PHOTO: FEMI ADEBESIN-KUTI  Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has implored residents to see state projects as theirs and shield them from vandalism. Speaking yesterday at the commissioning of 31 strategic roads in Ojokoro Local Council Development Area (LCDA), Sanwo-Olu said residents must understand that any project the government commissioned should be taken as people’s assets. The governor asked the residents to monitor one another to ensure that none used the roads as parking lots, mechanic workshop or deposit refuse in the drainages.Sanwo-Olu revealed that the network of roads fitted into his administration’s agenda of ensuring good traffic management, while promising greater things for the residents in the future. He promised to build a senior arm to Akinyele Junior Secondary School as requested by the chairman of the LCDA. Special Adviser to the governor on Works and Infrastructure, Aramide Adeyoye, stated that prior to the intervention leading to the construction of these roads, the growth in traffic volume and axle loads had overburdened most sections of the roads in the area.Her words, “The existing conduit drain parallel to most of the roads had been blocked and rendered ineffective, resulting in flood washing away the surface of the roads, creating gullies, craters and ponding of the roadway whenever it rained. “Residents felt orphaned, not catered for by either of the states they were sandwiched in between. Today, the story is different; they are proud to be Lagosians.”She noted that roads commissioned by the governor showed that the government had robust plan for the development of the area, aside lending credence to the commitment to complete all projects left behind by his predecessors and embark on new projects that would enhance the greater Lagos journey. “Infrastructure is highlighted as a key contributor and vehicle to achieve the THEMES agenda by the current administration of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. Roads infrastructure, in particular, is regarded as a crucial engine for economic growth and social development. “The strategic network of roads are complete with reinforced concrete drains, cover slabs and walkways on both sides of the road. Some of them also have cross culverts and outfall drains at some specific locations of the council. There are also lay-bys and some major parts of the areas also have some major public utilities such as electric poles, transformers and streetlights with power generating sets,” she added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .