Oshodi, Igbogbo council chairmen ban street carnivals ahead yuletide
Barely a week after three suspected cultists were killed in separate clashes in Lagos around Ikorodu and Ajah, the cult war moved to Ilasa area of the state yesterday in a notorious battle for supremacy between the Eiye and Aiye cult groups.
 
The serene atmosphere of Atinuke Street, Ilasa, changed into pandemonium on Sunday when some members of the Eiye group allegedly butchered to death a young man popularly known as ‘Deco’ while gravely injuring another person simply identified as ‘Ota’.
 
The victims, according to an eyewitness who pleaded anonymity, were members of Aiye cult group. He said: “The killers (Eiye boys) came from Ilasa other side. This fight of supremacy can be dated back to five years now as they continuously kill each other, count scores and terrorise the community. “This morning, while most residents were preparing for church, the cultists walked in majestically to the home of the victims and axed two persons. One died instantly while the other victim has been rushed to the hospital.”
 
According to another source, who also pleaded for anonymity, “those boys came to look for a notorious cult leader, Ahmed, popularly called General. He has been on the rival group’s watch-list for more than three years and each time they come to kill him, they end up missing their target and instead killing his associates, who are also his subordinates.”
 
The Guardian gathered that when policemen arrived the scene, everyone started running for fear of being picked up as suspects. The ensuing pandemonium led to an aged woman knocked down by a bus, which immediately sped off.
 
A motorist simply addressed as Baba, explained that this was not the first time policemen would raid a crime scene and for want of evidence, raid innocent persons, passersby and eyewitnesses who would later be released on bail.
 
He called on the state government to find a lasting solution to the incessant cult wars in Ilasa, which has gone on for many years with no respite. “Our children are most vulnerable to this menace as they can easily get influenced by the thug life and invincibility of the cultists,” he added. Meanwhile, in order to forestall a breakdown of order in their domains, the chairmen of Oshodi local government area and Igbogbo/Bayeku local council development area (LCDA) have separately banned street carnivals between December 20, 2019 and January 10, 2020. This was contained in a statement signed by Kabiru Gbadamosi, Special Assistant to Oshodi chairman on media and publicity, and Shakiru Seidu, Special Adviser to Igbogbo LCDA chairman, respectively. The statement read: “The executive chairman of  Oshodi Isolo Local Government, Idris Muse Ariyoh, has banned any person or group of persons from holding Street Jamz or carnivals in Oshodi Isolo local Government between December 20 and January 10. The decision was reached as a result of security peace meeting held with security agencies and stakeholders to avert the breakdown of law and order within Oshodi community. “The council helmsman further send a stern warning that on no condition should any individual or group organise a street jamz or carnival without getting an approval from the Local Government and the police.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .