Former International, Adegoke Adelabu, has described the inclusion of a new clause by the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) before Coach Gernot Rohr’s contract can be renewed as a welcome development. NFF president, Amaju Pinnick, had on Thursday admitted an error in the first deal signed with Rohr, saying that the new pact for the Franco-German coach would now include living in the country, which allows him only to travel twice or thrice in a year and that his list of players for any national engagement must be sanctioned by the NFF technical committee before the players are invited. Speaking to The Guardian yesterday on the new condition by the NFF, Adelabu stated that aside the new clause for Rohr’s deal extension, that competent coaches must also be engaged to assist him with a view of taking over from him by the time the new deal ends if he agrees. Adelabu said: “My concern with Rohr is to find out whether he was able to fulfill the objectives of his first contract before extending it. Another one is has there been any improvement in our game and the mode of selecting players? “If the NFF technical committee has to approve of any player he invites to the camp, then we have to find out why they want that now? Adelabu stated that it was worrisome that a coach would solely rely on foreign-based players, and do things in his own way before every international engagement. “I think what the NFF needs to do now is to engage a coach that must be ready to sacrifice for the country. The mistake made in the past shouldn’t be allowed again. They must employ local coaches that will assist and learn from any foreigner they engage so that when he goes, our coaches can take over. “The coaches around Rohr how competent are they? Are they good enough to take over from him when he leaves? There must be a take-over process because we can’t continue to rely on a foreigner to steer the affairs of the Super Eagles,” he said. Adelabu also stressed the need for Rohr to abide with the new clause because Nigeria needed a coach who will look into the league for players good enough for the national team. “Anything short of that means he is not interested and they should allow him go,” he stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .