Amina Mohammed | YouTube 58-year-old British-Nigerian diplomat, Amina Mohammed has been named as one of the most powerful women in 2019 by Forbes. The list comprises 100 women whom Forbes says are often referred to as the “first” and sometimes the “only” in their respected fields. The 2019 list of the World’s 100 Most Powerful Women celebrates women who are using their power to create change and, often, lift other women up with them. Mohammed who is the Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations (UN) is one of the 23 newcomers on the list and she is ranked 98th on the list. The 23 newcomers to the list made their debut for their work in industries spanning politics and policy, business, finance, media and entertainment and technology. Speaking about being named as one of the world’s 100 most powerful women in 2019, Mohammed said on Twitter on Friday: “I am humbled to be amongst other great women in the Forbes 2019 PowerWomen list working for humanity.” In the top 10 on the lists are Angela Merkel (Germany), Christine Lagarde (France), Nancy Pelosi (U.S.), Ursula von der Leyen (Belgium), Mary Barra (U.S.), Melinda Gates (U.S.), Abigail Johnson (U.S.), Ana Patricia Botin (Spain), Ginni Rometty (U.S.), Marillyn Hewson (U.S.). The highest-ranked newcomer is Ursula von der Leyen (No. 4) who was appointed the president of the European Commission, the executive branch of the European Union, in July 2019. Next is Julie Sweet (No. 16) who became the CEO of the consultancy Accenture in September 2019. Rounding out the top three newbies is Judith McKenna (No. 21), the CEO and president of Walmart International. Mohamed attended a primary school in Kaduna and Maiduguri, and Buchan School in the UK. She further attended Henley Management College in 1989. After she finished her studies her father demanded she return to Nigeria Mohammed in 2016 served as Nigeria’s Minister of Environment and helped Nigeria’s efforts on fighting climate change. She was previously a special adviser to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and part of the policymakers in setting the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. She has also worked in three successive administrations in Nigeria.