The chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Osun State, Prince Adegboyega Famoodun has explained the reason the forum of APC state chairmen prevented the National Chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole, from being sacked, saying it was to save the ruling party from deeper crisis. He said the APC learnt from the leadership instability that rocked the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) when it changed its national chairmen frequently, stressing that the APC didn’t want to go through such an unpleasant experience. Fielding questions from journalists at the NUJ Correspondents’ Chapel in Osogbo, the Osun State capital, last Thursday evening, Famoodun said the party’s misfortune in Zamfara State and the unending crisis in the Edo State chapter were not enough grounds to relieve Oshiomhole of his job. Stressing that conflict remains an unavoidable component of politics, he noted that the capacity to manage it without escalating to large-scale crisis was a mark of political maturity. “We don’t have any choice than to support Oshiomhole; we can’t afford to experience the calamity that befell the PDP as a result of similar conflicts, which they failed to manage diplomatically. “The essence of history is to guide future happenings. In that wise, the forum of APC state chairmen must do everything possible to save the party by rallying around the national chairman and also take steps to resolve other issues that are causing disagreements. “We are also not unaware of certain interests that considers the leadership of Oshiomhole as inimical to their political ambitions, hence the desperate move to replace him. However, we are making every necessary arrangement to reach an amicable resolution,” he said. Commenting in the scorecard of his party in the state, Famodun said the administration of Governor Gboyega Oyetola has been consolidating on the achievements of the last administration of Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, especially in the area of infrastructure and health. He explained that certain policies of the new government were tailored towards addressing the immediate needs of the people in the state without compromising physical development. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .