• Plans new security control centre, 2,000 cameras Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has threatened to proscribe the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) if the members do not conduct themselves well. The governor said this yesterday on a television programme, where he maintained that his administration was committed to delivering his Greater Lagos vision. Sanwo-olu said, “The NURTW is a national body of the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC). It is a registered trade union.“Like other unions, they are under the supervision of the state government. We regulate and supervise them. They would be proscribed if they don’t conduct themselves well.” He said his administration had recorded a lot of achievements in the last 196 days in the area of security, adding that he would stay up late monitoring the security situation in the state. “At a period like this – going to the end of the year, criminal activities are usually on the increase because people usually want to do things to make quick money. We are working on salvaging the situation. We have a new Commissioner of Police who has hit the ground running from the first day he came in.”He revealed that by 2020, the state government would build a new control and command centre, as well as instal over 2,000 cameras across the state. Said he, “One of the things that we realised that is happening everyday in the world is that security is also going tech; you need a lot of devices to monitor all of it. “Next year, we are building a new control and command centre as part of our safe city project, as part of our megacity security deliverables. We will have up to 2,200 high definition (HD) cameras across the state.”The governor also gave an overview of his plan for the environment and called for measures to prevent a situation that could lead to population explosion.He noted that one of the efforts by his administration was to appeal to residents to ensure they register with the Lagos State Residents Registration Agency (LASRRA) for proper capturing and planning. “Thousands of people come into the city without plans, and we do not have any border control to mitigate this.A lot of people come into Lagos and they really don’t even have a place (to stay). They do not have a means where the next meal is going to come from; they do not know where they are going to sleep and that’s the reality,” he added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .