A new traditional combat competition, known as African Warriors Fighting Championship, will debut in Lagos on December 14 at the Lekki Leisure Beach. The event, tagged ‘the Coronation of Kings’ is being organised by African Warriors, Africa’s leading promoter of traditional combat sports. According to the organisers of the event, the Coronation of Kings Championship, which was previously held in Enugu and Lagos, was put together to create more awareness of the sport ahead of the December championship. They disclosed that top African fighters will be taking part in Dambe, an ancient form of boxing native to northern Nigeria, and traditional wrestling is also known as ‘Kokowa’ or ‘Mgba. African traditional fighters from across Nigeria, including Akwa Ibom, Bauchi, Enugu, Kano, Katsina, and Lagos will be vying for glory at the championship. There are various types of tickets including passes for standing, seated, standard seating, VIP seating positions, and VVIP cabanas. 
 
Founder and CEO of The African Warriors Fighting Championship, Maxwell Kalu said the event is aimed at raising the profile of traditional combat sports, adding that since the project was launched in April, the competition has achieved international prominence through its coverage by the BBC and CNN. “The love of sport brings all Nigerians together, and it is vital that we promote our traditions. African Warriors is showcasing indigenous sports on a level that has never been matched in Nigeria and the Coronation of Kings will be an amazing event. “In 2020, we will deliver more exciting events and work with anyone who shares our vision of showcasing traditional sports,” he said. Kalu also hat African Warriors is affiliated with the Lagos State Association for Traditional Sports and the Nigerian Traditional Sports Federation. Speaking on the event, chairman of the Lagos State Traditional Sports Association, Abiola Ogunbiyi, commended the African Warriors Fighting Championship initiative, saying it has not only changed the face of traditional sports in the country but has also engaged the youths positively. “Lagos State Traditional Sports Association is happy to endorse the African Warriors Fighting Championship. We are excited to continue working together to build traditional sports at the state, federal, and international levels,” he said.
 
Tickets for the event slated to start by 3.00 p.m. on December 14 range from N1, 000 for standing, N3, 000 for seated, N20, 000 for VIP to N150, 000 for VVIP cabanas. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .