The newly appointed Vice Chancellor of Delta State University (DELSU), Professor Andy Egwunyanga, has resumed duties with a promise to lead, inspire and advance the Institution as one of the best citadels of higher education in the country. Prof Egwunyanga’s position as the seventh VC of DELSU followed his appointment by the visitor to the institution, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, on recommendation of the Governing Council after a selection process by the Joint Council and Senate Selection Committee. In his seven-point agenda issued by the Information and Public Relations Division, Egwunyanga, while commending his predecessor, Prof. Victor Pretemode, said his administration would in the next five years be promoting academic freedom, shared governance, transparent decision making, but would be resolute with its commitment to discipline. “I earnestly solicit renewed support and solidarity of all staff and students. I bear no grudges against anyone and I ask that we forgive one another and unite as a community of scholars and administrators, to collectively lift DELSU. “Let us live up to the inspiring words of our anthem and create a citadel of learning that thrives in hard work for self-reliance, great in knowledge, character and service, he said.Prof. Egwunyanga, who is a former chairman of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), pledged to lead, inspire and advance the repositioning of DELSU to emerge as the best university in Nigeria. “To realise this vision, we have a lot of work to do, among which is provision of the highest quality of teaching and learning to our dear students, should be at the heart of the students.“We must focus on improving the welfare of staff to ensure effective and motivated workforce. There is the need to be more innovative and employ ICT to make DELSU more competitive and also our ageing facilities must be rehabilitated and university services made more effective,” he added. The former Rector of Ogwashi-Uku Polytechnic said his administration would pay adequate attention to the development of the three campuses of the university, adding, “We shall improve the university’s relationship with its host communities and genuine cases of injustice will be addressed.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .