Trial of the embattled General Manager (GM) of Kwara State Television Authority, Alhaji Abdulfatai Adebowale, over alleged N4 million land fraud continued yesterday with a prosecution witness, Sulyman Abdulkareem, narrating how he paid N2.3 million into the defendant’s account. “My Lord, after the allocation of 10 plots of land to the staff of Kwara State Television Authority, the GM, Alhaji Abdulfatai Adebowale, approached the Director-General of Kwara State Bureau of Land that there was no way the 10 plots could be shared among the staff, saying ‘let them sell it and bring the money.’ “The DG linked me with the defendant who instructed me to look for buyers. I sold about four plots for N2.3 million. I then contacted Adebowale who told me to bring the cash. But I refused and asked for his account number for proper records. I paid the money into his Stanbic IBTC account,” the witness said. The Ilorin Zonal Office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) is prosecuting Adebowale on a six-count charge of corrupt practices before Justice Sikiru Oyinloye of a Kwara State High Court sitting in Ilorin. Count three of the charge reads: “That you, Abdulfatai Adewale Adebowale, being a public officer, as the General Manager of Kwara State Television Authority, sometime between May 2015 and June 2015, in Ilorin, within the jurisdiction of the High Court of Kwara State, used your office to confer corrupt advantage upon yourself, when you received a cash deposit of N2.3 million through your IBTC account from Sulyman Abdulkareem, being proceeds from the sale of land allocated to staff of Kwara State Television and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 19 of the Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Act, 2000.”The defendant pleaded not guilty to the charges preferred against him by the EFCC.The case was adjourned till January 14, 2020 for cross-examination of the witness. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .