 Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, presenting certificate of merit to retiring Head of the State Civil Service, Engr. Lanre Bisiriyu, at the weekend.  Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun has charged civil and public servants in the state to brace up for the challenges of statecraft in the New Year. Abiodun, who gave the charge at the send forth programme organised for the retired Head of Service (HoS) in the State, Engr. Lanre Bisiriyu and 11 Permanent Secretaries, at the Arcade Ground, Governor’s Office, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta, said there are more serious tasks in the coming year, which would put serious demand on their moral, intellectual and management competencies.  The Governor noted that his administration remains irrevocably committed to good governance for the continued development of the state and individual prosperity irrespective of age, gender or status. He added that workers’ welfare would continue to receive priority to further guarantee industrial harmony. “Let me, in a special way acknowledged the entire civil and public servants for their support and cooperation since the inception of this administration. I must state that all we have achieved in the last six months is no doubt largely due to dedication, commitment, and diligence that our civil and public servants have exhibited. “Our administration will continue to appreciate all our civil and public servants as important stakeholders in the successful implementation of building our future together agenda. Ogun State public service has a proud legacy of professionalism. In this wise, I urge all our civil and public servants to keep the flag flying by emulating their predecessors,” he advised. Abiodun who said the programme was organised to induct the retirees as the true and worthy ambassadors of the state, noted that government would continue to count on their experience for the development of the state and the public service, in particular, saying their retirement has created a vacuum that would be difficult to fill. In his remark, the Secretary to the State Government, Mr. Olatokunbo Talabi eulogised the retired HoS for helping to stabilise the administration through his wise counsel and strict adherence to political neutrality. The outgoing HoS, Bisiriyu, in his valedictory speech, lauded the government for involving the people in its building the future together agenda. Meanwhile, the Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun has appointed TPL Amope Ajibola Chokor as the new HoS in the state. On Friday, the former HoS, Engr Lanre Bisiriyu, alongside 11 Permanent Secretaries bowed out of the public service of the state. According to the Governor, the state has a legacy of excellence to protect in its public service that produced the likes of Chief Simeon Adebo and A.K Degun of blessed memory. Chokor comes into her new position as an accomplished town planner and administrator. She hails from Imapa Quarters at Ota, in Ado-Odo/ Ota Local Government Area of the state. Until her appointment, Chokor (nee Bankole) was Permanent Secretary in the State Civil Service Commission.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .