The Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) yesterday said it had secured the conviction of 84 persons in respect of financial and cyber offences as well as other forms of corruption in Edo, Delta and Ondo states this year. Head of the Benin Zonal office of agency, Muhtar Bello, disclosed this y in Benin while briefing journalists shortly after a road show to mark the 2019 World Anti-corruption Day. He said the commission also recovered N217, 268,236 million while property, including houses and vessels, were forfeited to government within the period. Muhtar noted that graft was a serious crime that could undermine the social and economic development of any nation, saying they have to include religion leaders in this year’s celebration to spread the message. He therefore sought the support of stakeholders to make any meaningful progress in restoring transparency, accountability and due process in public governance. Muhtar said the EFCC, under the acting chairman, Ibrahim Magu, had between 2015 and 2019 secured 1,636 convictions, including three former governors, Joshua Dariye of Plateau State, Taraba’s Jolly Nyame, and Orji Uzor Kalu of Abia. Also speaking, a representative of the Christian Association Of Nigeria (CAN), Rev. Fill Arojie, said his organisation had joined forces with the anti-graft agency to stamp out all forms of graft in the country. Arojie, who is the chairman of the youth wing of CAN, stated: “We must join hands with EFCC to fight corruption. It is a fight that we must support and win.” On his part, the Chief Imam of Benin, Sheik Abdulfatai Enabulele, said all hands must be on deck to tackle the menace, as it was drawing the nation back. “ We need to support the acting chairman of EFCC, Ibrahim Magu for the good work he is doing. We must purge ourselves, be more patriotic, committed and sincere because the stealing is too much and if we do not kill corruption, it will kill us,” he pleaded. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .