 Godwin Obaseki  The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo state yesterday condemned the grandstanding of the various factions of the APC with regards to the factional rally scheduled for tomorrow, alleging that thugs were being imported from Kogi State to cause violence in the state. It urged the police and other security agencies to be at alert because tensions continue to mount in the state, saying APC factions were raising serious concerns following threats from at least three factions of the party. In a statement issued by the state PDP spokesman, Chris Nehikhare, it cautioned against acts capable of throwing the state into further crisis and commotion ahead of Friday’s purported APC rally.Nehikhare said Edo State, which hitherto was a peaceful and tolerant state may be turned to Kabul, capital of war-torn Afghanistan, if current threats emanating from political activities of the APC were not nipped in the bud. “The level of intolerance in the PAC has led to the non-representation of up to 14 constituencies in the state House of Assembly since its inauguration, occasioned by the attacks and maiming of their own members in Owan, Estako Central and Ovia North-East council areas of the state. “They are now raising the ante by boasting and accusing one another of importing thugs from Kogi State. We are all aware of the antecedents of Kogi APC thugs.“We hereby urge the police and other security agencies to be at alert as the built up tensions by factions in Edo APC can only deliver sorrow, tears and blood,” he said. Meanwhile, indications have emerged that all is not well in the state All Progressives Congress (APC) following the alarm raised by Governor Godwin Obaseki, and the State APC Chairman, Anslem Ojezua over the party’s rally scheduled for Friday, December 13, 2019 where a former Candid of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2106 polls, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu would allegedly join the APC. Ojezua said, “Neither Obaseki who is the leader of the APC in Edo State, nor other leaders of the party is aware of the purported declaration rally, which is therefore, highly provocative and capable of causing a breach of peace.” He explained that the positions of APC and Obaseki revealed that they are unaware of the PDP chieftain’s move to the APC.Obaseki, who spoke with journalists in Benin City denied knowledge of an APC rally planned to hold on Friday, saying, “I have checked with the state APC secretariat and as far as I am concerned, the party has not announced that it will be having any rally.”Obaseki also disclosed that issues of public safety had been reviewed at the security meeting, particularly in relation to the yuletide season. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .