Nigeria’s tech ecosystem is the most talked about in Africa. Why not? You will be of the opinion that it is because Nigeria prides itself as the Giant of Africa, has a large economy and; a population that is growing faster than the economy. But, Nigeria’s tech ecosystem is enviable, not because we have more people involved but, because there are tech meisters who are doing a lot of enviable stuff. Sometimes, you will ask if there’s even a tech ecosystem in Nigeria – more reason you should check out the list below. The first one that might catch your interest is Gamba. Sounds Nigerian right? It is an adventure game, where you the player (Gamba) journeys to the North in search of bounty and discovers a nearby village ravaged by the evil pirate horde. You have to play it to know what you will decide after you see evil staring in your face. Gamba was created by Black Ring which was founded by Ali Akdogan. Naija Rush, created by Imaginarium Creative Global, will interest you. It is an endless game where the 2019 presidential candidates have to overcome obstacles as they race to Aso Rock. You will take your preferred candidate through the city, gathering as many votes as possible as you race. Which better game as we go to the polls on February 23? The Aboki Run game is similar to Subway Surfer and, is an endless runner game. Players try to help three young friends, Danjuma, Gbenga, and Chinedu, discover more about their ancestral home. The game features an African themed environment. This includes a cave, forest and so on. It was created by Maliyo Games; founded by Hugo Obi. Gidi Run is another one, created by Gamesole. Gidi Run is also similar to Subway Surfers, only that you get to run on Lagos streets. You can choose to be a bus conductor, policeman or perhaps a commercial bus driver. Abiola Olaniran founded Gamesole. You are probably tired of seeing a list filled with only run games. Okay, this one is for those who like board games. Naija Whot is one simple game that takes your mind away from worries. Yes! it does that. It is a classic game for all ages. It was created by Tonielrosoft. Stickman Hooks and Swings 3D is one game you might want to have on your phone. It is a scrolling, web swinging game where you can swing like a Spider. It is easy but fun and adventurous. It was created by Deluxe Creation Studios founded by Edu Shola. The last one on this list, Anointed: Chronicles of Laftu was created by Yinola founded by Yinka Iyinolakan. The major character is Laftu. Laftu is on a quest to conquer all evil using excerpts from the Bible. There are more and more games, but we will end here.