 Dokubo  “The Niger Delta people are with President Buhari because they have been reaping from the amnesty programme since I came on board. With Mr. President’s support and determination, we were able to commission a world-class vocational training centre for our beneficiaries at Agadagba-Obon, Ondo State recently,” Dokubo said. He debunked claims in the social media linking him to sponsorship of political thugs ahead of the botched presidential and National Assembly elections of February 16. A Facebook user had, at the weekend, alleged that thugs aided by Dokubo attacked the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) secretariat in Abonnema, Akuku-Toru Council of Rivers State, few hours to the postponement of the elections. But the presidential aide dismissed the allegation as bare-faced falsehood concocted by vicious mercenaries of the PDP to mischievously draw sympathy and incite vulnerable youths in the area to unleash mayhem in the area, in the face of its imminent defeat. Dokubo stated that he was at Abonnema, his hometown, on the eve of the election to cast his vote, and had no business with any political thug. “I arrived Abonnema on Friday evening to enable me cast my vote the next day, before the election was postponed. But I was shocked when my attention was drawn to a post on social media alleging that I aided thugs to attack the PDP secretariat at Abonnema. This is a wicked and dangerous lie, as I had no dealing with any thug and didn’t step out of my residence in my brief stay in the community. But for the presence of my security men, my residence would have been attacked over the false alarm,” he said. Dokubo warned against blackmail, incitement and politicisation of the PAP which, he noted, was set up to sustain peace and security in the Niger Delta, to pave way for its development. In a related development, the Niger Delta Progressive Movement (NDPM) has flayed attempts to link Dokubo with violence and sponsorship of thugs, warning political jobbers in the act to look elsewhere. NDPM chairman, Chief Emene Akpoutu, said yesterday in Abuja that Dokubo’s antecedents in enthroning peace and conflict resolution in the Niger Delta was among the reasons for his appointment by Buhari as PAP coordinator. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .