 Former Delta State Governor, Dr. Emmanuel Uduaghan shaking hands with players during the Governor’s Cup competition for secondary schools in 2013  Uduaghan’s tenure as governor of Delta (2007-2015), witnessed a massive turn around for sports in the state, with Team Delta emerging champions at the National Sports Festival on two occasions, KADA 2009 in Kaduna and Eko 2012 in Lagos. The state also finished second behind host, Rivers State, at Garden City 2011. Delta State also won the National Channel’s Kids Cup in Lagos in 2013, while Warri Wolves qualified for the finals of the 2014 Federation Cup, the first time in thirty years by any male club from the state. Through his effort, Delta FA was able to establish a synergy with state’s ministry of education, leading to the revival of secondary school football competition. The process led to the staging of the biggest Governor’s Cup competition ever among public schools in the country in 2013 and 2014. Many Nigerian top athletes, including Blessing Okagbare-Ighoteguenor, Ese Brume and Divine Oduduru benefited from Uduaghan’s cash motivation before, during and after major sporting activities in his eight years administration. Speaking with The Guardian earlier in the week, Uduaghan, who is contesting for Delta South Senatorial seat under the APC in tomorrow’s election said would liaise with the relevant authorities to uplift the standard of the nation’s sports, both at state and national level. “I always feel sad whenever I see our athletes struggling to meet up at major sporting competitions. It shouldn’t be so because Nigeria is blessed with talents. All our athletes need to succeed at major competitions is morale and cash motivation. If I win this senatorial election, I will give my support in whatever ways to our athletes because whenever they win, the entire nation is happy. My support will go to athletics, football, tennis, weightlifting, table tennis, volleyball, hockey, para sports, swimming and others,” Uduaghan stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .