 Osita Okechukwu  The APC members, who gathered at the Enugu office of the Buhari Support Organization (BSO), said they decided to come together to prove to the world that their party had come to stay in Nigeria. The Director General of the Voice of Nigeria (VON), Osita Okechukwu, who addressed reporters on behalf of the Buhari’s supporters, said the victory of the president would guarantee uninterrupted development of critical infrastructure. According to him, the resounding victory of the president has provided a lifeline to ongoing development of critical infrastructure such as roads, rail and massive investment in agriculture geared towards diversification of the country’s economic base and attaining self-sufficiency in food production. “The Eastern Rail Line Corridor, Enugu Coal, 2nd Niger Bridge and Enugu Urban Water Scheme are now guaranteed. This is the reason for the jubilation.”Okechukwu lashed out at those he called bigots in Igboland who adopted the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, as the South East candidate, saying it put Igbo votes into one basket; but for their resistance. He lamented that the Ohaneze Ndigbo led by Chief Nnia Nwodo, deliberately adopted Atiku even when he knew he stood no chance in the north against Buhari who has a vote-bank of 12 million. Okechukwu said not minding the economic downturn shortly after President Buhari assumed office in May 2015, his administration, within its first tenure, embarked on provision of additional 5,000 megawatts of electricity, 5,000 kilometers of federal roads and 5,000 kilometers of standard gauge rail lines of critical infrastructure. “Buhari’s uncommon stride in the provision of critical infrastructure is why we are happy with his victory. This is the foundation of prosperity as captured in the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP),”Okechukwu said.The VON DG maintained that there was no better opportunity than the second term of Mr. President to consolidate on the gains already made. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .