 Uche Secondus. Photo/Twitter/UceSecondus  President Muhammadu Buhari had scored over 1.2 million votes to beat Atiku Abubakar, who polled a little over 300,000 votes.Speaking with newsmen in Katsina, Chairman of the party, Salisu Yusuf Majigiri, said due to the irregularities, the party declined to sign the result collated by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) yesterday. Majigiri, who is running mate to the party’s gubernatorial candidate, said the national headquarters of the PDP had been informed about the development.He wondered why the PDP in the state would score lower number of votes in last Saturday’s election, when it had garnered more number of votes during the last general elections in the state. “The election was characterised by irregularities. We will not accept the result, and have declined to sign on the result collated by INEC in the state.“We have also informed our national headquarters on the issue,” he said.But reacting on the issue, the Collation Agent of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Ahmed Dangiwa dismissed allegation that the poll was characterised by irregularities. Dangiwa called on the PDP not to see outcome of the polls in negative light, as political parties who were winners yesterday could also become loosers tomorrow.He, however, called on the PDP to not to point accusing fingers at the APC over allegations of regularities, but to approach INEC and tender their complaints. Besides, controversy and petitions have trailed the just concluded National Assembly elections in Cross River State.All Progressives Congress (APC), accredited agent of the party for the Presidential elections in Cross River State, Okoi Obono-Obla and its senatorial candidate for Cross River South, Bassey Otu have accused the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) Frankland Briyai and some INEC officials compromise against the APC in the state. His words: “There are a lot of issues in Cross River State. In Obudu, we saw the corruption that took place, where monies were given to INEC officials and results were thereafter cooked. “The whole thing was about how the results in the northern part of Cross River State comprising Obudu, Obalinku, Ogoja, Yala and Bakwarra local government areas were cooked up.”He said in Yakurr, Abi, Boki and many other places, there was violence and thuggery, orchestrated by the PDP, adding there were no elections in Boki and Etung, part of Obubra in the Central Senatorial district, yet the REC wants the results declared. But in a swift reaction, Briyai denied allegations, saying INEC will conduct rerun elections in the state in the areas were necessary after considering all petitions and reports from electoral officers. However, Returning Officer for the Presidential elections in the state, Professor Akin Ibhadode after receiving results from local government collation officers, announced results from 17 of the 18 local government areas in the state with Atiku scoring 295,737 votes, as against Buhari’s 117, 302 votes. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .