Special Olympics Nigeria in partnership with Max International Nigeria at the weekend in Lagos secured some health equipment for persons living with intellectual disabilities. The occasion, which was part of the firm’s corporate social responsibility, witnessed an exhibition match between Team Special Olympics Nigeria against Team Max International Nigeria in front of a large gathering of parents of children with special disabilities. Speaking at the event, Mr. Nana Werec-Ampim, who represented the President, Special Olympics Africa, Mr. Charles Nyambe, said, “Special Olympics programmes worldwide have succeeded in changing lives of people with intellectual disabilities. Corporate organisations whether large or small can help transform the lives of our athletes through collaborative support and partnerships. “So many institutions and organisations have helped our athletes to realise their dreams through sports, trainings and competitions as well as health care. Today, that dream has been extended to us in Nigeria through the generosity of Max International. They are gradually becoming a big sponsor of activities. “Today, they are donating mobile dental and eye equipment with accessories, which will go along way to support our healthy outfit programme.
We believe also that their products will also be accepted by the Nigerian market to enable them be in business and keep this healthy relationship longer.” On his part, the Country Manager, Max International, Augustine Kokukokor said: “We were considering who to give back to in the society and SONigeria was picked because they cater for a community that has been forgotten, disadvantaged, people that some parents are hiding in the villages,” he said. A delighted SONigeria Sports Manager, Adeola Oladugba, who stated that the synergy between the two bodies resulted in the donation of the equipment, said: “SONigeria is not only about sports, but also health caring. The grant of some equipment we believe is just the beginning of a long lasting partnership. We are coming again to knock at your door.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .