Do you want to call her Lady or do you want to call her Gaga? Whatever you choose to call, Lady Gaga, keep in mind that there is hardly anything she cannot do. The music star has been on fire in recent times not only for her commendable acting prowess but also for the success of her song, “Shallow” which has now set music records. [AD] Back in 2012, Carly Rae Jepsen had taken a chart record from Gaga when Jepsen’s monster hit song, “Call Me Maybe” took over from Gaga’s number one spot. Gaga was sitting atop the charts with “Born This Way” which managed to sit six weeks at the top before Jepsen’s song too over on the Billboard 100 chart and went on to stay there for seven weeks. Carly Rae Jepsen | Photo – AXS When that happened, the “The Fame” crooner, Gaga had taken to Twitter and announced a playful warning shot. She tweeted, “I SEE you just swooped in and broke my BORN THIS WAY record of the most weeks at #1. DONT GET COMFORTABLE IM COMING FOR YOU.’ Gaga can now say she has been able to stand by her word because her song, “Shallow” has finally surpassed Jepsen’s and @musicnewsfact sent out a tweet acknowledging the milestone. “Shallow by @LadyGaga & Bradley Cooper has now surpassed @CarlyRaeJepsen’s Call Me Maybe & is now the 5th longest running #1 song on iTunes Worldwide, spending 101 days at #1.” This is not the only achievement that Gaga has to celebrate thanks to “Shallow” because the 32-year-old also clinched three Grammy awards for the song. In addition to that, “Shallow” is now eligible for 2x PLATINUM in the US for selling over two million copies there. US singer-songwriter Lady Gaga arrives for the 61st Annual Grammy Awards on February 10, 2019, in Los Angeles. (Photo by VALERIE MACON / AFP) 33-year-old Jepsen came to prominence when she placed third on the fifth season of Canadian Idol in 2007. She followed that up with her folk-influenced debut studio album “Tug Of War” in 2008. Her major breakthrough came four years later with “Call Me Maybe”, which went on to become the best-selling single of 2012. In all, it hit number one in 18 countries worldwide. Gaga, on the other hand, rose to prominence in 2008 with her electro-pop album “The Fame”. She has since gone on to become one of the most successful artists in the world with huge mainstream success from her follow-up albums “Born This Way”,  “Artpop”, “Cheek To Cheek” and “Joanne”.