Wikki Tourists Wikki Tourists FC Coach, Mohammed Muhammad has ascribed his team’s 0-1 defeat to MFM FC at the weekend to loss of concentration, adding, however that the defeat would not stop his wards from winning the title. A lone goal scored in the 69h minute by second half substitute, Akuneto Chijioke through the assist of another substitute, Mubarak Said, ensured that the Olukoya Boys secured their third home victory in a balanced game, which MFM had more scoring opportunities than their opponents. MFM are on nine points in Group A, with the Giant Elephant boys now in seventh position with six points. Speaking to The Guardian on Sunday, Coach Muhammad said his wards lost focus the moment their hosts scored the only goal of the encounter. “We paid for our loss because my boys lost concentration just for a little while. I have a set of players, where some of them are just from the state league and you can see what they displayed in the match. “Our match plan was to pick a point on the road here, but unfortunately we lost the match and we couldn’t get a point,” he said. Looking ahead to their clash against Enyimba of Aba on Wednesday in the match day seven of the NPFL, Coach Muhammad described the fixture as a must win. “We are playing against Enyimba at home and that is a match we cannot compromise, it’s non-negotiable because we will be all out for the three points. Though Enyimba are in a good form, but it does not take anything away from my team as our mentality to win at home is always there. And I believe we are going to get the three maximum points by God’s grace. “By the time we win our home match and get it right again in our next away game, we will see where we will be. Though the management of the club didn’t give me any target, but as a human being, I will always want to set the target for myself because I didn’t want to just participate, I want to compete for the league title. “I don’t think there is any team better than mine, one thing is that we will keep our match plan and if we continue the way we started, we will get to our destination,” he stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .