 [FILE PHOTO] Oshodi  A source alleged that Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) LASEMA Response Unit (LRU) inability to respond swiftly to emergency calls placed on them by the Lagos State Traffic Management Authourity (LASTMA) to tow away a commercial vehicle with Lagos registration number AAA 742XF that broke down on Oshodi road around 1.a.m on Sunday led to fatal accident. Traffic started building up as early as 6 .am yesterday and lasted till the LRU officials arrived and removed the commercial vehicle causing obstruction around 10.23a.m Speaking with The Guardian, official of the LASTMA attached to the Rapid Response Unit who does not want his name in print, said, “we never knew how the accident happened, but all we knew was that the vehicle has been on the road since Saturday night. We are rescue operatives from LASTMA and we are not allowed to remove vehicle from the road. Another vehicle ran into it this morning around 5.a.m and caused a serious accident. Speaking on the casualties, the official said, “four persons sustained serious injury but I doubt if all of them can make it. One of the victims was taken away be her husband. One had a spinal cord injury, while a woman had hemorrhage because her chest was swelling and the driver had a broken leg. The response time of LRU to the incident was very poor. Responding to the poor response time, one of the officials of LRU who arrived the scene with a towing van arouund 10:15a.m said, “we went to respond to an emergency in Abraham Adesanya and immediately we got the call that our attention is needed in Oshodi, we left what we were doing there and rushed down here, in fact, we abandoned the one we were working on in Abraham Adesanya estate, Ajah to come to Oshodi. “We could have gotten here on time and prevent the accident assuming we were in our base when we got the call. You should know that we spend more than an hour on the road before getting here.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .