 Emmanuel Udom and Akpabio  But, judging from his utterances since joining APC, it seems that the former governor, being a lawyer, was propelled more by ambition to become President of the Senate than fear of lengthy graft prosecution. However, be that as it may, the former governor’s ambition to return to the Senate seems to be clashing with the aspiration of his successor and protégé, Governor Emmanuel to serve a second term in office. In this clash of ambitions, track record of performance by the two political leaders in office as governors has become the measuring rod, especially against the background of existing rivalry between their platforms, APC and PDP.While Akwa-Ibom people remember Akpabio for grandiose projects, some of which served as conduit of waste and personal wealth, they note the variety in Governor Emmanuel’s initiatives in the area of establishing industries capable of attracting Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) through Public Private Partnership (PPP). After the state was carved out of Cross River State, particularly from 1999 when the current democratic system began, the people had wished and clamoured for a governor that would establish industries. Akpabio capitalized on that yearning and made lofty promises about founding at least one cottage industry in the local government councils of the state. Without doubt, that singular promise rendered during his campaign for a second term in office attracted much votes to Akpabio. Contrast of reality
IF the former governor harvested much popular support for his largely failed promises, the incumbent seems to have gone a notch higher by matching words with action. Unlike in the preceding regime when high net-worth, signature projects failed to reach the completion stage, Governor Emmanuel went for the low hanging fruits by establishing the Syringe, Metering, Flour Mill, Toothpick, Plastic industry at Industrial Park in Itu Local Government Area, Fertilizer blending factory at Abak, Rice Mill in Ini, among others. The governor said his decision to establish the industries was informed by the vision to ensure that in five years’ time Akwa Ibom State would be manufacturing virtually all of its daily needs, especially toilet papers, eggs and garri for domestic consumption. Senator Akpabio, while he was governor, made much noise about his projects, including those that were commissioned at 50 per cent completion stages. Although Emmanuel failed to walk in those steps, with the approach of election and given Akpabio’s movement to a rival political platform, women and youth groups have decided to weigh in on the achievements of the government. Despite the political competition in the air, Akwa Ibom State could be said to be lucky with the caliber of governors that have presided over the affairs of the state, especially Obong Victor Attah, who laid the golden foundation and Udom Gabriel Emmanuel, who has brought about economic reality of industrialization. In the forthcoming election, therefore, there are reasons to believe that after the presidential and National Assembly election of February 16, Senator Akpabio would most likely recoil from further campaigns, because he (Akpabio) might not be able to gainsay Emmanuel’s performance. Without minding the fact that one of them was owned by the Methodist Church, Governor Emmanuel has rehabilitated, refurbished and revitalized no fewer than seven general hospitals across the three Senatorial Districts of the state from their decrepit states, including Etinan General Hospital and Ituk Mbang General Hospital Uruan. The bulk of support for Emmanuel’s second term aspiration is coming from the womenfolk, especially traders spread across the 31 council areas of the state, who had accessed the interest-free micro-credit scheme initiated by the governor in 2016. In the area of security, the personality and quiet aura of the governor have reflected on the peaceful atmosphere pervading the state, unlike what obtained in the preceding dispensation when it was a taboo to visit or associate with Obong Victor Attah. The peace and social harmony in Akwa Ibom is also enhanced by the even distribution of amenities by Governor Emmanuel, a development that extended government’s presence to such deprived communities as Uruan, Oruk Anuam, Oron, Ika, Eket, Esit Eket among others. There is no doubt that these gesture from government would win PDP and Governor Emmanuel public goodwill and votes at the polls. Consequently, the contrast between Akpabio’s performance and Emmanuel’s track record of outstanding policy formulation and implementation would determine the outcome of the election. Separating guber from presidential poll
WITH less than two weeks to the presidential election, various political parties in Akwa Ibom have revved up their campaigns. But the situation on ground is that between the two main political parties, PDP and APC, APC has more work to do.It does not seem that February 16 holds much excitement for the electorate than for  members of APC, most of who defected to the party and are eager to prove a point about their political clout. Based on his ambition to be Senate President, Senator Akpabio would throw his all into the election for two reasons, namely to make it back to the Senate, and secondly to justify the confidence reposed on him by the APC leaders, especially former Lagos State governor, Bola Tinubu, who would want to expropriate his goodwill for the 2023 presidency. Of the 40 registered political parties that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) announced as participating in the election, PDP and APC will share the votes on February 16. But in Akwa Ibom Northwest, Akpabio would be tangled in a stiff contest with PDP’s Senatorial candidate, Dr. Chris Ekpeyong, who is running on the track record of his achievements and as a former deputy governor under Obong Victor Attah. Choked by the senatorial contest, Senator Akpabio may not find things easy mobilizing voters for President Muhammadu Buhari outside his senatorial district. Ekpenyong had boasted that he is on a mission to retire Akpabio from politics. February 16 might as well turn out as the day of reckoning for Akpabio and APC. However, after victory is won and lost in the election, no matter which side gains ascendancy, the March 2 gubernatorial contest would turn out to be PDP’s day of glory. On paper, four political parties, Young Democratic Party (YDP), Abundant Nigeria Renewal Party (ANRP), Young Peoples Party (YPP) and Peoples Progressive Party (PPP), could be said to be offering alternative challenge to PDP and APC.But with the first stanza of the election over on February 16, chances are that candidates of YDP (Ezekiel Nya Etuk), ANRP (Iboro Otuu), YPP (Nature Udoh) and PPP (Ekong Eyo) might decide to align with either Emmanuel of PDP or Nsima Ekere of APC. The odds tilt in favour of the incumbent because no matter what happens to Akpabio on February 16, he would not be disposed to campaign for Ekere against Emmanuel, who has shown exemplary leadership and displayed uncommon vision for the sustainable development of Akwa Ibom. Devoid of violence and rigging, it would be an uphill task for APC to vanquish PDP in Akwa Ibom, just as Governor Emmanuel remains the candidate to beat at the governorship based on shining record of performance and project execution. The governor’s ecumenism and pacifist approach to leadership stand him in good stead, because most Akwa Ibom people seem to enjoy his style and the prosperity of peace in the state.The tension arising from the tempo of politicking in the state gives the impression that Akwa Ibom is a battle state, but the possibility is high that the outcome of elections in the state would end as an anticlimax. PDP is still at home in Akwa Ibom under the leadership of Udom Emmanuel. Additionally, should Ekpeyong dethrone Akpabio on February 16, a new era of creative politics would have begun in the state. That would mean the return of the state to peace under one big umbrella.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .