 Georgia Oboh hopes for the best on the final day of the on-going South African Women Open.  Being in South Africa has given the young Nigerian the opportunity to stand side by side with some of her idols in the sport. She has learnt a few tips from her more experienced opponents and above all, it has given her the confidence to wade into some of the most challenging courses in the Rainbow nation. Georgia does not fear challenges and being among better rated players bring out the best in her. But in the outings so far, her performance has been short of what she expects of her game. That, she says, is part of the curve that would aid her growth. Georgia currently has a score of 80 and occupies the 40th position in the 67 field 2019 South African Women’s Masters. She knows she can do better and so going into the final day on day two of the competition holding at San Lameer Country Club, Georgia is braced for the tough challenge of making the final cut. “It was indeed a tough start for me today and I believe I was able to overcome the slow start to end in joint top 40. I look forward to a good start tomorrow amidst the array of stars competing in the tournament. It has been a good learning curve for me in South Africa, as I hope to pick more experience and also learn from the top players competing in most of these top class competitions on the Sunshine Ladies Tour,” Oboh said. Making the final cut this term will make up for the disappointment of narrowly missing the mark by four shots in the final round of the Dimension Data Ladies Prom-Am, which was won by Swaziland’s Nobuhle Dlamini last week. The pundits’ money is on Swaziland’s Nobuhle Dlamini to gain her first victory after a number of near-misses in previous editions of the competition. The 27-year-old big-hitting Swazi golfer finally broke through for that maiden triumph in the SuperSport Ladies Challenge. Since then Dlamini has added two victories to her tally, with the latest coming at the Dimension Data Ladies Pro-Am in George last Sunday and it’s no surprise then, that the Glendower Golf Club talent has transformed into the form player on the local scene. With a new-found self-confidence, Dlamini believes the wins will start mounting. “I want more wins, and what better place to do that than this week?” said Dlamini. “I really believe I’m a winner now. Winning the First Stage of the Ladies European Tour Qualifying School and doing well in Final Stage reinforced my belief that I can compete on the global stage.”
Dlamini knows there will be no overpowering the testing layout at San Lameer. “I love the Wild Coast and can’t wait to go back and defend my title and I would love to win here this week, but San Lameer is tricky. It’s a real test of patience when the wind is up. I think that the more you compete here under different conditions, the better you get at judging shots, reading the wind and picking the right lines,” she said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .