 Khardiata Lo Ndiaye  Resident Representative of UNDP in Nigeria Khardiata Lo Ndiaye noted the success of the poll would ensure the success of the 2030 development agenda. Speaking during a high level stakeholders meeting in Akure, Ondo state, she urged Nigerians to shun violence and imbibe the principle of fairness, diversity and objectivity in the electoral process, tasking stakeholders to ensure free and credible polls, promising that they would continue to support the government and people of Nigeria in promoting good governance and peace. She reminded Nigerians that promoting peaceful election and inclusiveness remains one of the sustainable development goals and access to justice for all, building effective, accountable and workable institutions at all levels, expressing optimism that the investment toward promotion of good governance and peaceful co-habitation in Nigeria would help government and the people to live in harmony. Declaring the workshop open, governor of Ondo State, Rotimi Akeredolu, urged stakeholders to support INEC in conducting free, credible elections. Akeredolu, who was represented by his Deputy, Agboola Ajayi, asked Nigerians to vote for credible candidates and embrace peace during the electioneering process. His Osun counterpart Gboyega Oyetola represented by Olalekan Yinusa, the Supervisor in charge of the Ministry of Budget, Economic Planning and Development at the occasion said Nigerian not only ensure success of the poll but also work towards a united and prosperous society. In his submission Gbenga Adeyanju, the Commissioner of Police in Ondo state who was represented by Assistant commissioner of police, Adegoke Alani warned various unions, especially the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), against any form of violence ahead of the elections. The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye  Ogunwusi, commended the UNDP for organising the workshop and urged the people, especially voters, to ensure peaceful election. The Alayemore of Ido-Osun, Oba Adedapo Aderemi, represented the Ooni.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .