LASU The crisis rocking the Lagos State University (LASU) chapter of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) worsened yesterday as some aggrieved members accused the embattled leadership of gross misconduct and demanded the conduct of a fresh election to usher in new executives. Addressing reporters on the development, the group, under the aegis of ‘Concerned members of academic staff union’ appealed to the national leadership of ASUU, led by Prof Biodun Ogunyemi to intervene. Led by Prof Adeleke Fakoya, the aggrieved members demanded the dissolution of the Dr Isaac Oyewumi led executive, which they claimed, lapsed in March 2018. Oyewumi and his deputy, Dr Adebowale Adeyemi-Suenu were dismissed from the university in September 2017 for alleged gross misconduct.
They had since gone to court to challenge their dismissal by the institution’s management. The university also last year stopped the disbursement of check-off dues to the union based on the allegation that the two embattled ASUU leaders have refused to hands off the union activities despite their dismissal. Prof Fakoya while calling for the dissolution of the executive said the actions of the union leadership contravenes ASUU’s global integrity. In a document signed by13 members of the group, they alleged that the exco members are constantly looking for ways of creating chaos within the university and have lost consciousness of the principal goal of the union, which is to promote staff welfare by demonstrating total disregard of giving honour and respect to the professional cadre in the university. The group lamented that attendance at ASUU-LASU congress has shrunk due to the caustic disposition of executive members. “This unacceptable situation is as a result of the present declaration that Dr. Oyewumi remains the chairman of the union despite the fact that he was dismissed by the university governing council for gross misconduct. Investigation revealed that since their dismissal about two years ago, the ASUU leadership has been paying salary to the dismissed chairman and his deputy in spite of the fact that they now work at Olabisi Onabanjo University (OOU), Ago Iwoye. But Oyewumi who confirmed his engagement with OOU said most of the concerned members are ignorant of how the union operates. He called on the aggrieved members to channel their grievances via the constitutional provisions of the union.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .