When the colour blocking trend first hit us as far back as 2007, many of us didn’t know how to work it. Fast forward to 2017 and fashion lovers have successfully mastered the art of matching the brightest of colours. However, as beautiful as it is to see people in big, bold and beautiful colours, we must understand that it can be intimidating if you don’t do it right.   To help you become the best version of the rainbow you want to be, these six tips will keep you on the right track.  Rihanna in a colour block outfit for Paper Magazine Photo – Twitter If you are looking to colour block an outfit, your first thought should be primary colours – blue, red and yellow. With these three colours, your options are limitless when you consider how they complement other colours. Halfway between red and yellow will be orange, halfway between yellow and blue will be green, and halfway between blue and red will be purple. From there, you can fill in all the shades of the rainbow. Tamron Hall using a black necktie accessory to complement a bright yellow outfit | Photo – Today Show When you have your colour block ensemble ready, then think complementary accessory. For this, opt for monochromatic colours, neutral colours or analogous colours. You can also go for a big belt, chunky jewellery and eye-catching jewellery to take your colour blocking to an entirely new level. Solange Knowles in a colour block ensemble | Photo – Pinterest The goal of colour blocking is to let the entire outfit work together hence why you avoid patterns. Patterns call attention to themselves so stick with solid colours instead. Solange Knowles in a bright orange and yellow ensemble | Photo – Pinterest Yes, colour blocking means you want to be bright and command attention but you don’t want to end up looking like a painter’s palette either. Don’t exceed three colours when you colour block because they will work against one another. Beyonce wearing Sunday Somewhere Charlie Sunglasses in Gold; Harbison color block coat, top, skirt, and clutch at the Adidas Originals x Kanye West YEEZY | Photo – Pinterest Just because you want to colour block doesn’t mean you should entirely ditch your neutral colours. Sometimes the best approach is to pick one neutral and one bright colour. Browns, greys, navy blues, and even white are easy to block against bright colours like yellow, green, or red.  