 Ms. Patience Oniha, Director General Debt Management Office (DMO); Mr. Oscar N. Onyema, OON, Chief Executive Officer, The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE); Mrs. Folorunsho Alakija, Executive Vice Chairman Famfa Oil Limited; Mrs. Toyin Sanni, Author of the Book, ‘Riding the Eagle’ and Ms. Mary Uduk, Acting Director General, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) during the formal launch of the book ‘Riding The Eagle, A Guide to Investing In Nigeria’ at the Exchange in Lagos, on Monday.  Continuing, she said: “Providing information to investors will enhance transparency in the Nigerian markets and improve our global reputation in the investment community.	“Riding the Eagle meets this imperative by providing comprehensive and up-to-date information on investing in the Nigerian markets through a roadmap and guide for foreign, domestic, institutional and individual investors alike. “It also examines the challenges faced by the Nigerian economy across sectors, past and recent success stories, and solutions to some of the nation’s economic and development challenges.	 She said the book delves into details on key sectors that drive performance in the Nigerian economy, and investment opportunities available for interested investors and motivated entrepreneurs.	 
 
Uduk therefore commended the author, Sanni, for putting at the disposal of the industry, the value of over one decade in the money market and another two decades in the capital market.	 
 
“The book serves investor interests through this comprehensive and authoritative work on investment opportunities in the Nigerian economy.
 
“It is imperative therefore that we all as stakeholders continue to take positive steps to attract and retain both local and foreign investments to stimulate economic growth and develop critical infrastructure necessary for our country’s development,” she added. In her remarks, Vice Chairman FAMFA Oil Limited, Mrs Folorunsho Alakija, described the book as a most appropriate and timely information guide for all stakeholders in the investment sector in Africa’s most populous and resource rich country (Nigeria). The author, Mrs Sanni, said the book will help make Nigeria a sustainable preferred destination by providing detailed and concise information for investors. She said the book discusses Nigeria’s current economic challenges and proffers solution to some of them. “Riding the Eagle is a guide for local and international investors seeking to exploit the unique opportunities in the Nigerian Economy,” she added.The event was also attended by Mrs Patience Oniha, Director-General, Debt Management Office (DMO); and Oscar Onyema, Chief Executive of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE).  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .