 [FILE PHOTO] Returnees queue to be attended to by state officials after alighting from chartered aircraft that brought home 150 migrants from Libya at the Murtala Mohammed International Airport in Lagos, on December 5, 2017. / AFP PHOTO / PIUS UTOMI EKPEI  The project, which was launched in Benin City, was to complement the efforts of the Nigerian government in discouraging irregular migration. Speaking at the launch of the project, IOM Nigeria Project Manager, Mr. Abrham Tamrat, stressed the need to manage the troubling issue of irregular migration in Nigeria and Africa. He said it is worrisome that over 670,000 irregular migrants are stocked in Libya, adding that Nigeria, according to IOM Migrants Law Monitoring Data makes up 10 per cent of these migrants. The organisers said the project is aimed at strengthening the capacity of state and non-state actors in Edo and Delta states to provide sustainable reintegration support to returned migrants over a period 24 months. It is expected to improve access to Nigerian migrants returned from Libya to Port Harcourt in January, by providing socio-economic services, mental health and psychosocial support to the returnees. Tamrat revealed that the number of irregular migrants has continued to reduce from over 390,000, in 2016 to 144,000 in 2018. He said as at January 2019, 6000 people arrived in Europe, stressing the need to manage such movement of people. Meanwhile, ActionAid Nigeria (AAN), in partnership with Ideal for Development and Resource Centre (IDRC), has also launched a new project to promote socio-economic development for youth, through the creation of job opportunities in Edo State. The training targets 140 participants from 45 registered cooperative societies in Edo, with four representatives from each cooperative body. Advisor, Migration Programme ActionAid, Gambo Wada, and Project Officer, Ideal Resource and Development Centre (IDRC), Adams Omoba, said the project, which has 45 cooperative societies have been established and supported to commence businesses in various trades. Gambo added that the project supported the beneficiaries to set up cooperative societies as a tool for job creation and poverty alleviation. He said under the project, 45 cooperative societies have been established and supported to commence businesses in various trades. He explained that though, a number of cooperative groups recorded some successes, quite a number of them are still struggling with keeping effective records of business transaction, accessing capital, planning, gaining market share, and conflict among members. Adams said the actionable/IDRC three-day training titled ‘Managing Business and Cooperative Society’ is targeted at training participants on application of business plan development skills, identifying methods of good record keeping, and adopting effective conflict management skills plan. Others are organising meetings effectively and strengthening the capacity of participants to market their products.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .