Job Oyebisi, winner of the #IdeasChangeLives challenge by the British Council.<br />Lucy Pearson, Country Director, British Council Nigeria and West Africa Cluster Lead, handing over the cheque of GBP 20,000 to Job Oyebisi of Stan Lab for his innovative idea to enhance science learning in secondary schools without laboratories. A Nigerian, Job Oyebisi, who won the 2018 Idea Change Lives British Council global competition, was yesterday awarded a cash prize of £20,000 for emerging champion. Oyebisi, who runs StanLab, a 3D virtual science laboratory, is also a joint winner of the competition with ‘Malawi’s mHub’. He won the championship that featured over 170 countries by creating a viable solution that would enhance secondary school students get acquitted with new learning skills in laboratory technology. He explained that students all over the globe, requires knowledge in getting quality education through modern scientific break through in research. “Coming out tops in the competition gives me joy. I won the championship by using technology to bring quality scientific education to secondary schools. I was able to offer a solution where students especially in public schools can learn in a laboratory class without physically seeing the lab. This is a scientific method through which a student can super impose his view in class to look like reality through a scientific device. In Nigeria and Africa, a lot of students don’t have access to quality science laboratory. This research can help develop students to be updated in modern scientific learning in schools,” he said. Also speaking at the award presentation, British Council country director, West Africa, Lucy Pearson, said the council will work with Oyebisi and other international agencies to ensure he gets the required assistance to make his research a reality. “British Council is delighted a Nigerian won the top prize of the competition. Our main aim for the competition is show commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We are aware that the world is changing fast and time is not on our side, the digital partnerships and innovations team is looking for new partners to help us raise our game. Challenge prizes competitions are viable relevant way of encouraging innovations, particularly in public sector organisation. Our key focus is human capacity building of our youths globally, “she said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .