Although many people are still sceptical or hesitant about using dating sites to find a partner, there are popular and top dating sites among Nigerians that can be used. Admittedly, there are downsides to trying to find love online but when done with caution, then it is a viable means of finding a partner. After all, as much as there are negative stories, there are also stories and testimonies from people who found their partners online. If at the end you are unable to find love, with proper use, you can still network and meet great people on some dating sites. As Valentine approaches, we have curated a list of top dating sites that you can consider finding love this season! Check it out below in no particular order. Undoubtedly one of the most popular dating platforms, it is a mobile application that allows you to do a whole lot of things once you download for free. Friendite.com was launched in 2012 and is fast growing as a social dating site among many Nigerians. On the dating site, members are allowed to share photos, videos, create events, groups, play games, among many other features. As ar 2018, it is believed that the site already over 84,000 registered members with a daily visit of 9,000. This dating app uses your location to show you people who live and work near you with hopes that you may connect with someone based on age, location and gender. You can chat with people as well as rate their photos. You also have the opportunity of using the “Encounter” feature which allows you swipe through photos and say either yes or no. If there is a mutual like, you both get a notification! With over 314 million users in Nigeria, the British Broadcasting Corporation reported that Badoo was the most downloaded dating app in Nigeria during 2015. Established in 2005, Sexy Naija has been around for over a decade and the best part of the site is that it is free to use. All you have to do is sign up with details like blood group, religion, occupation, marital status, drinking habit etc. The platform has features like Instant Messaging, Chatting, forum, a blogging application, and your own internal email. Yes, Facebook has gone beyond just connecting with your family and friends to also be used as a dating site and app by many Nigerian. It is, after all, a social network. There are many dating groups on Facebook that allows you find people looking for romantic relationships. Reuters reported that as of June 2014, Facebook had 15 million monthly active users in Nigeria and with more Nigerians daily embracing the use of Facebook, your chances to find love is higher. First launched in 2008, this online dating platform boats of the basic and advanced search functions, chat rooms, instant messaging, message boards and more. It is believed to have over 44,000 registered members with a daily visit of 3000. This dating site allows you to browse profiles of thousands of Nigerian men and women who are interested in romantic relationships. With your love interest constantly uploading new photos and videos on the daily, you can start by simply liking their posts to having a conversation in the direct message section. Popular Nollywood actor, IK Ogbonna has said in several interviews that he met his wife, Sonia Morales on Instagram. This dating platform is not specifically targeted at Nigerians but Nigerians living in the United States and the United Kingdom. It is not entirely free as you are required to upgrade to a Gold Membership to perform certain functions. Twitter may be the places of savagery in terms of the jokes and call outs that tend to fly around but there are also romantic Twitter stories that have melted the heart of many in times past. On Twitter, you have the option of sliding into the direct message of your interest and having a conversation with him or her. Do keep in mind that in using these websites or apps, you have to appy caution as with when interacting with strangers. Don’t give out persona information and remember to stay to safe in all that you do!