 Dr. Simon Emeje, Chairman Courier and Logistics Management Institute  What has happened to the agitation for an independent courier regulatory body?
That is true and that agitation is still alive. At a point in time, the courier operators felt they needed an independent courier regulatory body since NIPOST operates a courier business called EMS Speed Post. They felt threatened that NIPOST has a courier business, yet regulating the industry through the CRD. Their argument was that NIPOST would have double standards in regulating the sub-sector, since it operates a courier business.
  
The call for an independent courier regulatory body started since 2005, and I was one of the members of the ministerial committee that was set up by government to look into it then. Then we had a draft bill that was later fine-tuned but unfortunately, the then Postmaster General that pioneered it, Alhaji Abubarka Musa Argungu, died in a plane crash in October 2005. Since his death, it has been a battle to get a courier commission. The subsequent Postmaster Generals that came after Argungu tried to push the draft bill at the National Assembly for passage into law, but the bill kept going forth and back at the NASS, among the various committees that handed it.
   
At some point, the bill got to the stage of public hearing after scaling through the first and second readings on the floor of the National Assembly, but up till now, it has not been passed into law. From 2005, the bill had never scaled through to third reading, talk less of getting to the Presidency for the presidential assent. This current National Assembly is winding up and by May, another set will emerge and they will start all over again from the beginning, should any of them present it for deliberation. This has been going on as a vicious circle since 2005, and it is not helping the growth of courier industry in Nigeria.
 
What impact will courier business have on e-Commerce in Nigeria?
The e-Commerce is a huge business that also depends on logistics and transportation, which are integral parts of courier business. In Nigeria, the likes of Konga and Jumia are pushing the frontiers of e-Commerce in Nigeria. If courier operators see the huge opportunities in e-Commerce in terms of management, logistics and transportation, they can add value to its growth. E-Commerce is about purchase and delivery and courier is about logistics and transportation for the purpose of delivery. So, both can complement each other.Information and Communications Technology (ICT) is fast driving e-Commerce and courier business and there is need for both industries to embrace technology for expansion and improved quality of service. With CLMI, what are you driving at?
CLMI is an institute that was established to address the gap in courier and logistics practices that have existed over the years in Nigeria and globally. That gap is a combination of four professional areas: Courier, Logistics, Transport and Management. There is no institute or university all over the world that is addressing this challenge by offering a combination of the four professional areas as a single package in courier studies.
  
The closest that one can find is in the area of logistics, and in some places, transport. So CLMI is the very first institute that is offering the combination of the four core professional areas as a single package, and we now have the institute in Nigeria that is in affiliation with some federal universities in the country, and I am the first professor in that speciality globally. There are lots of quacks in the courier profession and business in Nigeria. How would CLMI address this challenge?
As a pioneer head of Courier Regulatory Department of NIPOST, I started the move to sanitise the courier industry and free it from quacks, who pose as professionals. At that time, we discovered that many courier companies that were operating had no operational licences and constituted a nuisance in the industry through various sharp practices. So, we went after them and closed down their offices and business in order to sanitise the courier industry of sharp practices.
  
Although the practice is still on, even after I had left, but we succeeded greatly in reducing quacks from the industry. CLMI is an institute that is interested in raising professionals and if we have several qualified professionals in courier business, I think the issue of quackery will drastically reduce. Again, if we have an independent regulatory body that is empowered by law it will further help in sanitising the courier industry. So what is unique about the entire courier business that CLMI is trying to project?
The uniqueness is clear because courier is far beyond what people think it is. Most people think it is only about movement of parcel from one location to another, but it is far beyond that. There is time element that is also involved in courier, which most people do not know, yet they practice it unconsciously. That time sensitivity is key in all activities of human beings and the four areas of speciality that we are talking about, govern all aspect of human activities globally. What we are doing with CLMI is to create the awareness that will help professionalise the activities we embarked upon on a daily basis, and the essence of professionalism is to help us better it.
  
In courier, we look at the time element involved in all courier activities. Then in logistics, we also have time management aspect of it because it has a process. Both manufacturers and consumers of goods are involved consciously or unconsciously in time management. The same thing applies to transport because time is also involved. Then to cap it all, management is key in all businesses because management is about decision making and time is also involved in it. So putting the four key areas together as a single package, is a whole lot and a gap that has not been filled for ages, both nationally and internationally. How will the combination highlighted impact the courier industry and Nigerian economy?
It will bring huge impact on both the courier industry and the economy. The first impact is that it will awaken our consciousness to things we do not pay attention to initially, and create new revenue streams to the Nigerian economy. The time consciousness in these four key areas, will spur productivity in the entire courier industry and at the same time, boost the economy. CLMI is affiliated with Swiss School of Management, Rome in Italy. What is key about the choice of affiliation and what impact will the affiliation bring to the industry?
In the first instance, there is an existing gap that needed to be filled and there is need to consider professionalism in filling the gap, hence the choice of Swiss School of Management.   
  
Again, CLMI is not a university but an institute, hence the need for a credible affiliation. Globally, nobody has a degree in the combined package of courier, logistics, transport and management, and if we are able to put this together, and issue a degree through our affiliation, it will go a long way to present the importance of courier in any given economy.  Is CLMI likely going to run the programmes as a school with physical structures on ground?
We are working with the Nigerian University Commission (NUC) to successfully implement this, and most of the skills acquisition will be online based. The duration for PhD programme is three years, MSc is one year and BSc Is four years, which of course could be awarded for three years by compressing some of the courses, depending on the speed of the students for first degree.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .