 Nwora  According to the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF) media, Cameroon Basketball Federation (FECABASKET) allegedly blamed D’Tigers for their inability to qualify for the 2019 FIBA Men’s World Cup following the loss to Cote d’Ivoire. Reacting to the allegation yesterday, Nwora said ‘such careless statement borne out of frustration and capable of bringing the sport into disrepute should not be taken lightly by the Federation of International Basketball Associations (FIBA).’ Nwora blamed Cameroon saying for embarked on a self-destruct mission during the qualifiers, which ultimately cost them a World Cup ticket. “If such is coming from Cameroon, that is hypocrisy. Instead of employing average coaches, they should have gone for the best. They have a very good coach who I know very well, he is one of the best coaches and I learn most of the stuff from him. “Angry Cameroonians should hold their federation responsible for costing the country a place in China as their gamble backfired.” The coach said that FECABASKET was wrong to think that they would qualify for the World Cup after losing five games in the qualifying series. He wondered how much cash or incentives would have been enough for the players and the coaching crew for the match to be fixed. “I wanted to go undefeated, make history for my country. Do you know how much Nigeria has for Cameroon to insinuate that we came here to sell a game? How much are they going to pay us? Who will pay us to sell a game? “These are professional players who make money. If they want to do something right, they should not blame their stupidity on these kids and Nigeria because these guys are professional.” Nwora described the allegation as an insult on his person, profession, players and what the NBBF stands for and threatening to sue FECABASKET or any individual that attempts to malign his name. He added: “If anybody is trying to question my integrity, my country and the people that I represent, that is an insult and this is the last time I want to hear that. If my name comes in, I will sue Cameroon or whoever does that.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .