Bisi Egbeyemi The All Progressives Party (APC) in Ekiti State has warned members appointed into the Campaign Councils not to mortgage the interest of the party by diverting the money earmarked for campaigns, thereby working against the electoral victory of the APC in the elections. The party noted that its experience in the last gubernatorial election in the state showed that some people actually worked against the interest of the party by diverting funds meant for campaign for their personal use. Speaking while inaugurating the APC Ekiti Central Senatorial Campaign council for the 2019 elections, Deputy Governor, Bisi Egbeyemi, said the only thing he sees that could dim the chances of the party is acts of betrayal. The Council is to campaign across the 57 wards in the district for the victories of President Buhari and senatorial candidate, Opeyemi Bamidele, House of Representatives candidates in constituencies 1 and II, Sola Fatoba and Wunmi Ogiunlola respectively and the House of Assembly candidates in the next elections. Bamidele said the candidates in the district would run a joint campaign since it is about the survival of the party and not about individuals. APC state Chairman, Paul Omotoso, urged members to eschew division and educate voters to reduce the number void votes that affected the party in the last governorship elections. Omotoso urged them to begin voter education, bemoaning that the party lost over 18,000 votes to poor voting in the last governorship election held in the state thereby reducing the margin of defeat to 19,000. “We are monitoring you, if we detect that you’re a mole in APC, then you are finished politically, because APC won’t allow PDP to win again in Ekiti, so you need to beware and be loyal”, he warned. Omotoso added that the PDP is no longer a credible alternative in Ekiti and Nigeria at large, saying any APC member who betrays the party shall pay for it dearly. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .