In a build-up to the general election which begins across the country on Saturday, the Sustainable National Party (SNP), has called on Resident Electoral Commissioners and others assigned with the responsibilities of conducting elections not to sabotage the process. Speaking yesterday in Abuja, National Chairman of the Party, Mr Kayode Michael Arimoro, urged them to avoid being used illegally by desperate politicians with the aim of rubbishing the efforts of the Chairman, Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Professor Mahmood Yakubu. Arimoro regretted that those whose interest INEC boss was safeguarding by postponing the election for one week, as well as those responsible for the postponement, were all persecuting him. He said: “As someone who I have interacted with in the course of the last two years, I see him as professional and honourable with a special ability to work under pressure. “My only hope is that his team members are as honourable as he is by ensuring that nobody uses them illegally As Nigerians go to the poll,  Arimoro who informed that SNP has rejected every temptation to collapse into other parties because it is looking beyond the moment, called on eligible voters to choose candidates who have exhibited true love to the country in words and actions, and those who have the know-how to reposition Nigeria for sustainable peace, unity and economic prosperity. He added that his party has remained calm over the postponement of elections by one week based on the understanding that INEC chairman had acted genuinely in the interest of the nation. “For those who are calling for his resignation, they have forgotten that there is no difference between him fixing a date for the election and not meeting with the date and politicians who fail to fulfil many of their campaign promises”, he stated. He also condemned calls for shooting or calling during elections, straying that staying alive is more important than anybody’s ambition. “Staying alive is important. Nobody’s life should be taken and nobody should allow his or her life to be taken for the sake of money or anything. “Irrespective of our ethnic, religious or political divide, we should pause and ask ourselves what we intend to achieve by whatever action we take”, he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .