 Minister of Science and Technology, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu. Photo/Twitter/FmstNg  Dr. Onu made this commendation while commissioning a multimillion naira Chemical Engineering laboratory of Alex-Ekweme Federal University Ndufu Alike, Ikwe (AE-FUNAI), Ebonyi State. The facility was equipped through collaboration between NOTAP and PZ Cussons plc to upgrade the laboratories of some selected knowledge Institutions across the six geopolitical zones of the country to ensure a rapid development of skilled manpower in the country. He said Industry must work closely with the University because Universities are the home of research and when there is synergy, researches carried out in the Universities will be such that will solve the problems of the industry.He added that with this kind of collaboration, commercialization of research finding may not be a problem because Industry will be very ready, very willing and very committed to ensuring that such research results are commercialized and made available in the market as products. According to him, Nigeria cannot become a truly great nation if we depend on other nations to meet our demands. He cited Japan, China, India and other countries as nations that should be emulated as they have taken their citizens out of poverty through research and innovation. He however decried the use of alternative to practical in teaching students in our institutions, stressing that students cannot be skilled enough when they are not taken through the practical aspect of their courses of study, adding that Nigerian knowledge institutions should fully embrace practical to ensure that students graduate with technical skills that can dovetail into improved techno-economic growth of the country. In his remarks, Dr. DanAzumi Mohammed Ibrahim, Director General of NOTAP thanked the Hon. Minister for always making himself available for commissioning of projects of NOTAP especially the commissioning of upgraded laboratories in the Nigerian knowledge institution as donated by PZ Cussons. He recalled that in carrying out the registration of technology transfer agreement which is the primary function of NOTAP, it was discovered that over 90% of the technology powering Nigerian economy are foreign and for a country that is striving to develop and become one of the highest economies in the world, the situation was unacceptable. He said PZ had upgraded three chemical laboratories and is ready and willing to upgrade more three including the just commissioned one in AE-FUNAI. He thanked the Management of PZ for their interest in developing Nigeria technologically and therefore urged other multinational to emulate PZ. In his address, the Chief Executive Officer of PZ Cussons, Mr. Christos Giannopoulos said the commissioning of the project was in furtherance of agreement the company had with NOTAP to commit resources towards provision of state-of-the-art equipment in some selected Nigerian Universities and research centers. He said the agreement was necessitated by the fact that no meaningful break-through can be achieved in scientific inquiries without necessary facilities and infrastructure that can compete globally.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .