 Tayo Oyetibo (SAN) and wife Abiola Oyetibo in the middle surrounded by workers of the Law of Tayo Oyetibo LP during the firm’s thanksgiving service in Lagos  Oyetibo disclosed this in his welcome address at the 2019 annual thanksgiving day of the law firm, Tayo Oyetibo LP. He said the use of any finger to cast vote is a veritable subterfuge for multiple thumb printing of ballot papers. The principal partner of the firm decried the decision that voters can vote with any finger as opposed to what obtained in previous elections in which only the thumb was the acceptable finger for voting. “If the experience from election petitions is anything to go by, the use of any finger to cast votes is a veritable subterfuge for multiple thumb printing of ballot papers. Under the former voting regime, it was easier to detect multiple thumb printing of ballot papers by observing the size and shape of the print on the ballot papers as the sizes of the other fingers are naturally narrower than the thumb but with the permission of the use of any finger to cast votes, it would seem that the flood gate of multiple thumb printing of ballot papers have been flung open. “It is hoped that INEC will reconsider its decision on this issue so as to make subsequent elections more credible,” he said. However, he explained that the annual thanksgiving day is to acknowledge the goodness and mercies of God to the corporate entity in the preceeding year and to seek from Him greater goodness and mercies on their professional activities in the current year. He said: “We engaged in multifaceted professional activities which involve multi-personal interactions and undertakings. We also, in the course of our professional and personal activities, make use of the Land, the Air and the Sea all of which are controlled by God.” In his exhortation, the founder and Senior Pastor of Trinity House, Pastor Ituah Ighodalo said most of the time people forget to give thanks to God because they are overwhelmed by challenges. He therefore admonished people to always thank God noting that there are many benefits attached to it. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .