 fulani  This is coming after a crisis broke out a fortnight ago within the troubled area, leading to the death of many people. The yesterday’s attack by the armed herdsmen occurred around 4:00 a.m. when they invaded the Karamar village in Maro district of Kajuru. They set houses ablaze and engaged in sporadic shooting of the residents as they ran out of their homes. In its reaction, the state government condemned the recourse to violence, and called on all communities to support the efforts to restore calm in the area.“Today, the Kaduna State government was briefed by security agencies of renewed attacks in Kajuru Local Government Area, and in parts of neighbouring Kachia Local Government Area. “The state government has been assured that the security agencies are working assiduously to contain the situation.“The government is saddened by these attacks, condemns the perpetrators and urges all residents of the area to support the security agencies in their efforts to protect communities,” it said in a statement by the Senior Special Assistant to the Governor (Media and Publicity), Samuel Aruwan. Also, officials of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Kaduna chapter, condemned the incident, urging the youths in the troubled community to refrain from reprisal attack, the government. The state chairman of CAN, Reverend Joseph Hayap, confirmed that the gunmen who invaded the village set houses on fire when the residents were asleep and also burnt a worship place. “The attackers fled later, they had already burnt houses and a church. The youths came out and guard the environment, with the intervention of security. Normalcy has been restored.“We have appealed to the youths in the area that there must never be any reprisal. We want to give the security operatives in the state the benefit of the doubt to go after the killers. We don’t want any reprisal attack because the circle of violence and killings will continue,” Hayab added. At press time, the latest report from a dependable source in the crisis- ridden Kajuru revealed that the death toll had risen from 16 to 28, with more natives still missing.The source said one mobile policeman was killed while three others were missing in after the attack.Several efforts made through phone calls and SMS to the Kaduna Police Command Public Relations Officer, Yakubu Sabo, to clarify the claims failed. Also yesterday, Governor Aminu Tambuwal confirmed the killing of 16 people in fresh attacks at Dalijan, Rakkoni and Kalhu communities in the Rabah Local Government Area of Sokoto State. Tambuwal, who made the announcement at a news conference in Sokoto said the incident occurred Monday night.According to a News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) report, the banditry, which started in Sokoto State on July 9 last year, has taken a total of 81 lives. The governor called on security agencies to intensify efforts at safeguarding the people’s lives and property.He commiserated with the victims and their families, praying Allah to grant them fortitude to bear the loss. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .