 Ken Nnamani  Nnamani, who is Deputy Chairman (South), APC Presidential Campaign Committee, was reacting to reports that he mismanaged funds meant for party agents, candidates and other logistics meant for the presidential and National Assembly elections in the state.He was also accused of shortchanging the zone in the disbursement of huge sums of money, a development for which some party stakeholders in the state held a meeting last Sunday. Speaking to The Guardian on telephone, Nnamani stated that although the money had been disbursed, nothing has been spent from it, adding that he takes full responsibility for the funds.“The money is meant for party agents in the three senatorial zones of the state. It had been distributed to the areas concerned according to the party’s approved template. “Enugu State has three senatorial zones and my mission is to ensure that these zones as far as the Presidential and National Assembly elections are concerned got their money. Enugu North and Enugu East got their money. But we had an issue with Enugu West, which we later sorted out with representatives of stakeholders including the Minister and candidates in the election and they all got their money,” he stated. Meanwhile, APC in Enugu State has said the recent court pronouncements against its candidates during the general elections was to weaken its support base and pave way for its opponents to emerge.Two High Court pronouncements in the last three weeks had nullified the primaries that produced some of its strong contestants in the state. The first was that of Senator Ayogu Eze whose primary was nullified, while that of candidate for Enugu East Constituency, Lawrence Ezeh followed as his primary was nullified on Tuesday. Reacting to the development, Director General of APC’s Enugu East Campaign Council, Simeon N.C. Nwagu, insisted that they were carefully carried out to disorganise the party and ensure that none of its candidates win elections in the state. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .