 Director, Consumer Affairs Bureau, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Felicia Onwuegbuchulam (left); Deputy Governor, Operations, Central bank of Nigeria (CBN), Folashodun Shonubi; Executive Vice Chairman/CEO, NCC, Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta; Executive Secretary Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption, Prof. Bola Owasanoye, and Executive Commissioner Stakeholders Management, NCC, Sunday Dare, during the Stakeholders Forum on Financial Fraud Using Telecoms Platform at the Transcorp Hilton hotel Abuja.  Speaking at a stakeholders’ forum on financial fraud using the telecoms platform, Wednesday in Abuja, Minister of Communications, Adebayo Shittu, said the incidence of financial fraud using telecom platforms has become pervasive. He added that apart from leading to the loss of reputation and income, it is also tied to direct financial loss of billions of Naira in the financial services sector, e-commerce, and telecommunications.  He observed that Africa pioneered the mobile payment sector, but lost intellectual property and leadership in the process, adding that cross border transactions heavily rely on external costly platforms. Also speaking, Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta, said the malevolent use of technology has become a growing concern in the industry, especially in the era of financial fraud.He observed that mobile channels have been seized by cyber-criminals as a new avenue for fraud, adding that mobile apps as a whole are now quite easy for hackers and cyber criminals to hijack, making them tools for fraudsters’ credentials, impersonate genuine account holders, and gain illicit access to funds. “Phishing tactics and social engineering ploys such as the SIM Swap are part and parcel of the online fraud mechanism, regardless of whether the transactions are conducted via mobile phone, desktop browser or point of presence.”Danbatta further noted that, “Despite advances in software technology, human intervention is still required to prevent SIM swap fraud which is difficult to detect. Banks are still trying to find effective ways of identifying when a customer’s mobile number has been fraudulently swapped and ported onto a new device.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .