 A medical worker wears a protective suit as he prepares to administer Ebola patient care at The Alliance for International Medical Action (ALIMA) treatment center in Beni, North Kivu province of the Democratic Republic of Congo September 6, 2018. Picture taken September 6, 2018. REUTERS/Fiston Mahamba  Ebola is a rare but deadly virus that causes fever, body aches, and diarrhea, and sometimes bleeding inside and outside the body.As the virus spreads through the body, it damages the immune system and organs. Ultimately, it causes levels of blood-clotting cells to drop. This leads to severe, uncontrollable bleeding.The disease was known as Ebola hemorrhagic fever but is now referred to as Ebola virus. It kills up to 90 per cent of people who are infected. How do you get Ebola?
Ebola isn’t as contagious as more common viruses like colds, influenza, or measles. It spreads to people by contact with the skin or bodily fluids of an infected animal, like a monkey, chimp, or fruit bat. Then it moves from person to person the same way. Those who care for a sick person or bury someone who has died from the disease often get it.Other ways to get Ebola include touching contaminated needles or surfaces.You can’t get Ebola from air, water, or food. A person who has Ebola but has no symptoms can’t spread the disease, either. What are the symptoms of Ebola?
Early on, Ebola can feel like the flu or other illnesses. Symptoms show up 2 to 21 days after infection and usually include:High fever,Headache ,Joint and muscle aches,Sore throat Weakness,Stomach pain ,Lack of appetite. As the disease gets worse, it causes bleeding inside the body, as well as from the eyes, ears, and nose. Some people will vomit or cough up blood, have bloody diarrhea, and get a rash. How is Ebola diagnosed?
Sometimes it’s hard to tell if a person has Ebola from the symptoms alone. Doctors may test to rule out other diseases like cholera or malaria.Tests of blood and tissues also can diagnose Ebola.If you have Ebola, you’ll be isolated from the public immediately to prevent the spread. How Is Ebola treated?
There’s no cure for Ebola, though researchers are working on it. Treatment includes an experimental serum that destroys infected cells.
Doctors manage the symptoms of Ebola with: fluids and electrolytes; oxygen; blood pressure medication; blood transfusions; and treatment for other infections. How can you prevent Ebola?
There is no vaccine to prevent Ebola. The best way to avoid catching the disease is by not traveling to areas where the virus is found. If you are in areas where Ebola is present, avoid contact with bats, monkeys, chimpanzees, and gorillas since these animals spread Ebola to people. Health care workers can prevent infection by wearing masks, gloves, and goggles whenever they come into contact with people who may have Ebola.
*Dr. Anthony Nwaoney is an epidemiologist To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .