Erstwhile presidential aspirant on the platform of Social Democratic Party, (SDP) and former Ambassador/High Commissioner to Canada, Iyorwuese Hagher has slammed the leadership of the party for endorsing President Buhari for a second term, saying the action totally negates the spirit and the motto of the SDP which is ”Peace, Unity and Progress”. Hagher who dissociated himself and his team from the action during a media briefing in Makurdi yesterday said the action of the party leaders amounts to one step forward, two steps backwards. “This extremely unpopular decision is motivated by nothing more than selfishness, greed and arrogance of the SDP leadership,” He accused party leaders of putting the party up for sale, stating that as a stakeholder, he denounces the decision to sell the SDP to the APC. While also stating that he felt the betrayal personally and viscerally, Haegher called on all SDP party faithful nationwide to vote against the APC and instead support and vote for Atiku Abubakar. Meanwhile, Atiku Abubakar’s wife, Jennifer Jamil Atiku Abubakar has stated that if elected, Atiku would involve women effectively in governance, empower youths and redress the plight of the southeast. Mrs. Atiku who said this during an interaction in Umuahia, Abia State, noted the demand of the women for one-third inclusion in Atiku’s appointments and urged the women and the zone to vote massively for Atiku. According to her, Atiku will in addition, ensure security of lives and property and engender accelerated development in the zone. Also, Akwa Ibom state women on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party [PDP] have expressed their readiness to deliver 100 percent votes for Atiku next week. Wife of the state governor, Martha Udom Emmanuel yesterday, gave this assurance at the Ibom hall grounds when Jennifer Abubakar visited the state to solicit for votes. According to her, Akwa Ibom women are committed to voting out the APC, appealing to Jennifer to remember them in empowerment programmes if elected into office. In her goodwill message, Helen Esuene, expressed no doubt that why everything appear to be working in favour of PDP ahead of the elections is because only PDP governors and leaders across the country have performed in the current administration. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .