 V-Day Flowers  When you receive a fresh bouquet of flowers as gifts they are beautiful and heavenly to behold. However to achieve maximum enjoyment and longevity from them you need to provide a little ‘’TLC’’ when the flowers arrive. Fortunately what is required is very simple. Here are a few suggestions that will ensure your flowers look their best. Follow them and your flowers will look great and last for as long as possible. Step 1; Start with clean water! One of the largest deterrents of fresh cut flower is bacterial. Bacteria and fungi are everywhere and ready to enter cut surface of stem and multiply. Prior to actual decay symptoms, cells of the water-transporting tissues can become blocked with micro organisms inhibiting water uptake. A plant’s root system serves as a filter to limit dirt, micro organisms and chemicals from entering and absorbing the plants ability to absorb water. When the flower is cut from its life sustaining root system, it loses this vital filter. It is important therefore to always start with clean water in order to protect and preserve the flower. Always use warm water (100-110 degrees) clean water as most flowers take in warm water more efficiently than cold. The actual quality of water used in a vase plays a major role in a flowers life cycle as examples. Sodium: present in high concentration in soft water is toxic especially to roses and carnations. Fluoride-added to drinking water for dental health, while fluoride may prevent cavities in kids, its harmful to flowers especially gerbera diaises, gladiolus and freesia. Minerals – in many cases drinking water is considered hard and contains high level of minerals. Dissolved minerals can and may block the flower stems ability to hydrate properly. Provide food for nourishment: While a flower is attached to the plant, it receives nourishment allowing it grow and develop, when cut from the plant, it loses it source of nourishment and water. You can buy and use commercial flower food that has been developed to simulate the flowers original environment and allow the flower to fully develop (open). Always follow directions and recommended amount. On the other hand you may not want to buy the commercial food to save costs. In that case, you may keep flowers longer with some common household ingredients: Step1.  Add 1 quart of warm water to a clean vase. Step2.  Pour 2Tbsps  sugar into the water. The sugar will help nourish  the flowers and promote opening of the blooms. Step3.  Add 2Tbsps white vinegar and stir well. The vinegar helps inhibit  the growth of bacteria and/or sugar, lemon-lime soda mixed with water will do the same thing. Step4.  Cut stems and Remove Foliage Remove all lower leaves so there won’t be any in water. Leaves sitting in water will deteriorate and rot. Decaying leaves make a good medium for bacteria and fungi, which will plug the vascular system preventing hydration and eventually causing death. DO NOT remove all the leaves along the stems length, the flowers need the leaves as part of their hydration process. Always be “gentle” during removal of leaves, gashes or breaks in the stem surface are “open wounds” where  bacteria may enter. Try using a soft, but inpenetrable glove for the removal of rose thorn and foliage. Re-cut Stems  one or two inches off, at an angle while they are under water. Always use a sharp knifeor clippers rather than scissors as this will avoid crushing the stem and therefore the vascular system. The slanted cut opens more area for hydration and prevents the end of the stem from resting directly on the bottom of the vase impeding water flow. Re-cutting  stems also exposes clean tissues uncluttered by bacteria. Step5. Arrange Flowers in the Vase Step6/ Display Your Bouquet in Cool Area. A bouquet of flowers will brighten any room, but before long they start to wilt and die. One of the ways to keep your fresh flower living longer is to keep your display in a cool draught-free area. Avoid direct sunlight which causes the flowers to die more quickly. Step7. Check Water Level and Replenish As Needed : Check the water level daily. If the water becomes cloudy, it should be completely exchanged for fresh solution made with correct proportion of fresh food and water. Note:  For roses, this process can be performed on Day 1, (when you first receive your flowers), on Day3, again on Day5, doing this will help obtain maximum vase life. Flowers In Foam: Some arrangements are assembled in floral foam wherere-cutting isn’t feasible. Make sure your stems are seated firmly in the foam (heavier flowers like hydrangeas sometimes wiggle loose) and simply add water daily. NOW ENJOY YOUR LONG_LASTING FLOWERS! To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .