 Bank of Industry  According to the Bank, the disbursement is in response to the increasing beneficiary repayments recorded under the scheme. Through a flexible weekly loan repayment plan of N430 per week paid over six months, the bank recorded high repayment of loans. BoI explained that the beneficiaries paid back by paying their BOI-GEEP loan on the PayDirect available at commercial bank branches across Nigeria and also through the purchase of repayment scratch cards that can be procured from TraderMoni agents deployed across any one of 2,260 markets/cluster locations. Indeed, available MSME data show that even though small businesses employ about 84% of the labour force; contribute 50% of the GDP, access to access funding that can move their businesses beyond the MSME level to the Small/Medium Enterprise level remains limited. In 2017, the MSME segment received a meagre 0.04% of all bank loans originated in Nigeria. To address the challenges and in recognition of the sheer possibilities that the MSME sector holds for the economy; in 2016, the Federal Government launched the Government Enterprise and Empowerment Programme (GEEP). “Through its signature products — MarketMoni, FarmerMoni, and TraderMoni — the programme has reached over 1.5 million Nigerians through small loans. These loans, starting from N10,000 up to N300,000, have helped beneficiaries to transform their businesses. “If these beneficiaries repay their first loan as promised, they immediately qualify for the second level N15,000 loan. After repaying the second loan, these beneficiaries will qualify for a N20,000 loan, then N25,000 loan, and finally they graduate into the MarketMoni loan program where they can get up to N100,000 in interest-free, collateral-free loan. Through a gradual step by step process, these MSMEs can grow and create jobs. “This incentive-based model is working. Despite the fears of traditional lenders on giving loans to MSMEs — in part due to lack of formal identification, limited financial track record, and no collateral — TraderMoni continues to achieve success with loan repayments”, the bank explained. Mrs Aishetu Adamu – a condiment and medicine seller at Bolori market in Maiduguri, Borno State – is one of the beneficiaries of the initial loan of N10,000 that migrated to the next phase. According to her, the initial loan was really helpful in promoting her business which was the major reason her repayment was prompt and she looks forward to increased profit and productivity with the N15,000 collected. Another N15,000 beneficiary is a small stall owner who sells provisions – Mrs Lucky Solomon. Mrs Lucky revealed she was happy with the improved profits she made from the first N10,000 loan she received. With that, she was able to repay the loan without delay and opt for the next loan. She expressed her gratitude to the Federal Government for this initiative and hopes to progress to the N100,000 level as the funds will go a long way to improve her business. Mrs. Aishetu, and Mrs. Solomon are part of the many beneficiaries in Lagos, Osun, Kano and Borno who have paid back their first, and gotten their second level loan amounts. “Beyond providing loans for MSMEs, GEEP is focused on sustainably boosting the MSME sector in an organised and effective manner. By requiring that beneficiaries seeking higher loan amounts provide a bank account (and BVN), the TraderMoniGEEP entrepreneurs will be on- boarded into the formal financial services sector. Consequently, these beneficiaries will be able to expand their businesses in the medium to long term; and this is already happening, one loan disbursement and loan repayment at a time”, the bank added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .