Babangida Abdallah, representing Dala constituency in Kano State House of Assembly, has petitioned the Comptroller General of Customs and the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related Commission (ICPC) over a retired assistant superintendent, Bashir Ibrahim, allegedly receiving salary in the service. In a petition signed by his solicitors, I. G. Waru & Co, the lawmaker confirmed that Ibrahim voluntarily resigned from service on August 24, 2018, through the Tin Can Island Port Command, but that available record indicated that “he is still in active service receiving full benefits.” The petitioner claimed to have evidence to prove that the supposed retired customs officer received salaries from August 2018 to January 2019. “Our client informed us, and all documents available show, that Bashir Ibrahim who was superintendent of customs, has by a letter addressed to your good office through the Customs Area Comptroller, Tin Can Island Port Command, dated and received on August 24, 2018 voluntarily resigned from the service of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS). “Having voluntarily resigned, one would not expect him at the moment to be in the active service of the NCS and receiving salaries, allowances and other emoluments of the office. “Copies of the payment slips evidencing that the ASC received salaries for the months of August, September, October, November, December 2018 and January 2019 are herewith attached. Against the above background, we urge you, sir, to kindly cause a discreet investigation to be carried out in ensuring that justice is done in the circumstance.” The lawyers copied the chairman of ICPC, asking for detailed check into the allegation. The Guardian gathered that the controversial ASP is House of Representatives candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for Dala federal constituency. Trouble started when it was discovered that Ibrahim was still in active service after he was declared winner of the constituency’s seat in the green chamber. Public workers in active service are supposed to resign their appointments before contesting elective posts. Another allegation hovering around Ibrahim’s neck was that he succeeded in manoeuvering his way, because of his biological relationship with a close associate of President Muhammadu Buhari. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .