Adagunodo As stakeholders in the travel and tourism sector gear up for this year’s Nigerian travel Awards, Jumia Travel, the hotel & flight arm of Jumia, has officially announced the launch of the 3rd edition of the yearly awards, which holds on Monday, March 11, 2019 at Jupiter Hall, Four Points by Sheraton, Victoria Island, Lagos. The online travel agency also disclosed that online voting for the awards has opened and will close on Wednesday, March 6t, 2019. The Awards, which aim to recognise outstanding players in the Nigeria Hospitality/Travel industry, will have the Hon. Commissioner for Tourism, Arts & Culture, Lagos State, Steve Ayorinde, deliver the keynote address on the topic Lagos as a Model For Tourism Growth in Nigeria. Other top dignitaries are Annette Ibe, the Lagos representative of the Nigeria Tourism Development Corporation (NTDC), Ikechi Ukoh of Akwaaba Travel Market and tourism/travel expert, and the Managing Director of Four Points by Sheraton, Folake Ogungbemi. There are 8 categories to be awarded and their nominees include: Hotel of the Year 2018: The George Ikoyi, Federal Palace Hotel & Casino, Radisson Blu Lagos Ikeja Hotel, Golden Tulip Festac, The Lagos Continental Hotel (Intercontinental), Southern Sun Ikoyi, Nordic Hotel, Swiss International Mabisel Port Harcourt, The Wells Carlton Hotel & Apartments and Protea Hotel by Marriott Kuramo Waters. Best Business Hotel 2018 nominees include Golden Tulip Festac, Eko Hotels & Suites, Federal Palace Hotel & Casino, Four Point by Sheraton, Hotel Presidential (Port Harcourt), Ibis Lagos Ikeja, Lagos Oriental Hotel, Park Inn By Radisson (Abeokuta), Radisson Blu Lagos Ikeja Hotel, Southern Sun Ikoyi and The Lagos Continental Hotel (Intercontinental). For Best Leisure Hotel 2018, Sun Heaven Hotels & Resort, Victoria Island; Morning Side Suites and Spa, Federal Palace Hotel & Casino, Whispering Palms Hotel & Resort, Epe Resort, Ibom Hotel & Golf Resort, Nike Lake Resort (Enugu), La Campagne Tropicana Resort, Eko Hotel and Suite, Golden Tulip Festac, and Barracuda beach resort will compete for the award. Best Local Airline 2018 nominees include Arik, Air Peace, Medview, Dana, Azman air, and Aero Contractors, while Best International Airline 2018 are Ethiopian Air, Emirates, Egypt Air, Kenyan Air, Africa world Airline, Air Namibia, South African Airways, Etihad Air, British Airways, Virgin Air, Delta Air, United Airlines, and Turkish Airways. Nominees for Travel Blogger/Vacation Planner 2018 include Travel with a Pen, TheUfuoma, Zeegoes, Sassyfunke, Irinajo, TVP Adventures, Naija Nomads, Tour2Nigeria, EatTechTravel and Unravelling Nigeria, while Travel Reporter of the Year 2018 nominees are Pelu Awofeso (Travel Next Door), Apata Oyeniran (Daily Independent), Chuks Nwanne (The Guardian), Wale Olapade (Nigerian Tribune), Omololu Olumuyiwa (Travelscope Magazine), and Obinna Emelike (Business day). The winners of the Nigeria Travel Awards will be honoured during an event held on March 11, 2019. “The Nigeria Travel Awards powered by Jumia has become the most anticipated travel awards in Nigeria. Its objective is to promote the Nigeria Tourism sector and reward the top players in the industry while encouraging best practices and improved services,” said Omolara Adagunodo, the Managing Director of Jumia’s hotel and flight marketplace.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .