Any fashion enthusiast cannot do without a classy bag as this fashion accessory can either make or mar your outfit. After all, we understand that the finishing touch to any great outfit is the right accessory. As 2019 rolls around, there are major bag trends we expect to dominate the fashion scene. Already, some of these bag trends are already visible on the runways and it is only a matter of time before we see them off the runway. Onyii Bekeh with a crotchet bag | Photo – Chuhu Ojekwe We spotted crochet totes and backpacks on the runways of Monse, Isabel Marant, and Chanel. So you can expect that it will be a major fashion accessory in 2019. In case this is making you moan about why you never tried harder for learning how to crochet, many designers will come to your rescue this 2019. The best part is that there are more than enough crotchet options to meet your every desire; from a casual tote for a beach outing to a semi-fancy one for dinner. there are more than enough crochet options to meet every desire. Chic Ama carrying a miniature bag | Photo – Instagram Yes, we also agree with you that miniature bags seem impractical but you can’t ignore that these tiny and dainty purses are cute for special occasions. Already, designers like Brandon Maxwell and Burberry have flirted with the idea of taking your favourite accessories and shrinking them into pieces no bigger than your palms. Tonto Dikeh carrying a single loop hand bag | Photo – Instagram This must-have bag trend gives a clean and sophisticated look to your appearance and maybe this explains why brands like Emporio Armani, Marc Jacobs, Dion Lee, and Adeam have all released looped single-handle bags. It was also predominant on runways in 2018 and is expected to rise steadily in use with fashion lovers. Fashion influencer, Iamdodos and a friend on the beach with a crotchet bag | Photo – Instagram Making for a cool and country vibe, woven bags are a must-have for your next beach vacation. Add a pop of colour to your outfit with a neon woven bag or be country-chic with a beige one.