 Kingsley Moghalu during his panel on Keys To Knowledge Economy where his two books were discussed  In that moment, with the crowd in rapturous well-deserved thunderous applause; the Lagos Books and Art Festival (LABAF) 2018, aptly themed: Renewal…A World that Works for All, with focus on the process of rebirth as the country marks 20 years in democracy; truly kicks off for me.I remain intrigued by the nourishment of the opening activities, particularly, watching children authors read from their books; coupled with the college poets, spoken word artists and acapella performers. Really!
All of this, in Nigeria where ‘the Youth are lazy’ – as recently carelessly said by the country’s president.
This is simply incredible!’
Five, Seven, 10 year olds writing and publishing stories; publishers dedicated to child authors – fuelling confidence, eliminating stigma, boosting their young love for reading and writing, nurturing a can-do culture, and validating dreams from childhood. “Yet!” I wonder about our perplexing existence in mar as a 58-year old Democratic Federal Republic – “if, we are amplifying enough of the great that is within us.” Day after day, attending various eclectic sessions, I remain truly smitten with the intentional thoughts and actions evident in the astute professional and engaging execution of all activities. The festival churns a splendid mix of programs on the intellectual, motivational, developmental, economical, artistic and social planes to effectively impact a broad audience range; with the freedom to return daily for the seven days duration, or attend a la carte to experience an excellent curation from Children’s’ Workshops and Mentoring Sessions for Elementary School kids, to topics and segments for Secondary to Tertiary students, to Mid-Lifers, generating animated Intergenerational Dialogues across board. Touching on subjects as controversial and riveting as Feminism and Sexual Orientation, Keys to The Knowledge Economy, interrogating like Leaders as Readers: Why I Read What I Read, where I enjoy the unrivalled impromptu opportunity to interview Dr. Reuben Abati; to iconic discourse and performances like Fela In Me. Even the foodie and hospitality purveyor in me was most definitely not ready for the amazing creativity of diverse presentations around the rapidly evolving Lagos Food Culture, in the segment Poetry of Stomach Infrastructure – a brilliant concoction of antidotes to the resonating bitter complaints of survival struggles in Lagos; for which the opening statement by Jahman Anikulapo, the festival chair, immediately sets the tone: “Let’s stop talking politics and its problems, let’s talk Life.” The diversity in performances is quite astonishing; pushing creative boundaries, yet deep and thought provoking. Case in point Ogede n baje, a l’onpon (the banana is rotten, we say it’s ripening) by Yusuf Durodola depicted via ‘human form bundles of paper shreds’, carrying real time placards and weights on their backs. The dramatisation tackles our fledgling Education systems and structures or lack thereof, with the tripartite mess of unscrupulous providers, students, and parents as a huge cry for help. Durodola’s weight literally rendering him hunchback, till he pleads his cause and unburdens his load. Of particular intrigue, though quite disturbing is the installation of Missing Link, a multi medium slave boat exhibit by Abolore Shobayo, with whom I revel the alluring privilege of an up close dialogue to share his works in his own words. “The installation depicts the (gory) realities of the slave trade  – the ‘Missing Link’ since its abolishment; and the striking likeness of today’s ongoing self imposed ‘Slave Trade’ of Human Trafficking, Mass Exodus, Illegal Border crossings etc from Nigeria across seas to perceived ‘greener pastures’.” Particularly poignant is the harrowing image of a tattered red drenched fabric beneath the boat, with clothes of all sizes – including toddlers, scattered around to depict lost lives in the ocean; stirringly conjuring emotional reflections of what it must have been like across those harsh seas. Colours of Our History, an art exhibit, installed within the treasures of the tucked away Freedom Park Museum Gallery, and produced by Asiri Magazine; takes on a deep historic journey through ethnic ‘Slavery to Emancipation’. The uncommon private tour of the closed upstairs gallery, a much welcome “plus on the job” – as my eleven-year old daughter enjoys a first hand peek into history. Standing feet away from Dr. Azikiwe’s ‘Telegraph Box’, literally the size of a piano, she asks, as I ponder; and also pose to you: “Mummy! Why don’t I know all these people? They seem like really important people in Nigeria’s history. Why don’t we learn about them in school?” These are the likes of Efunsetan Aniwura, The Three Wise Men’(Abubakar Tafawa Balewa, Obafemi Awolowo, Nnamdi Azikiwe) etc. “It beats me too. Why don’t (they) teach about these people in certain schools?” I mutter, as we exit. The FELA @80 Tributes on Day 3 at LABAF literally deserves its own entire review to serve it justice, a befitting post-humous 80th birthday tribute to an indelible character.“Fela is alive. What more is prophecy than a man that liveth even in death. His declared words, scenarios, anecdotes of years past – are still unfolding today,” Anikulapo said. Lanre Arogundade, journalist, activist, and author opens this compelling segment, with a review of his book ‘Fela: Yesterday’s Message as Today’s Reality’ –  inspired by recognition of Fela’s timeless connection to all people; across generations.“When you witness various books, theatre productions, art reviews, songs and lyrics with content and messages inspired from Fela’s words and works from way back when; yet are still applicable today. It’s easy for all generations to believe he wrote (only) for them,” Arogundade said.  He alludes to thespian works like ‘Fela on Broadway’, and the recent Bolanle Austen-Peters’ production of ‘Fela and the Kalakuta Queens,’ which continue to showcase Fela’s legacy; by retelling his stories, which so alarmingly still mirror today’s life occurrences. It just lands as unimaginable to my ears, to ever consider Fela as unsuccessful in anyway, regardless of what definition is meted; when I hear Benson Idonije, broadcaster, Fela’s first manager and author of the memoir, Dis Fela Sef, say: “To think (then) of Fela as young amateur Highlife musician leaving the country in 1958, to return in 1963 as a jazz artist. He was quite unsuccessful…, he quickly recreated himself to emerge as THE Afrobeat icon we now know. ” The Life and Legend of Fela will ever serve as testimony to build and leave formidable legacies by always being selfless, standing true to self and community, and using our talents towards the greater great of all, and for all.“What!” I exclaim at the end of this evening. “It’s just been three days in? What a ride so far…” The next few days provide burgeoning insight for the hungry, “second time around” creative returnee, that is me. In my recent resolution to hone and share holistic creative content, as a means to create ripple community impacts; I’ve chosen to embark on a global quest, attending renowned literary fests and workshops. I must confess my embarrassment to reaffirm my hunches for ‘Charity must begin at home’, amidst so much more than I could ever imagine magical talent, plethora of opportunities, and a market that can’t seem to get enough creative juice… In eye opening sessions such as, the Publisher’s Forum to the grand finale Art Stampede –  I continue to be bowled over. LABAF presents multiple layers of amazing insight to the possibilities we are yet to uncover. “Who says dedicated people and businesses don’t thrive in this environment? Do away with the limiting belief systems, and find the places and people of growth.” As I find in another impromptu interview with an avant-garde bookstore owner, Lamide, Patabah Books (second generation owner), an unsuspecting panelist I happen upon. We both laugh heartily as we discuss books and distribution, when she voluntarily confesses: “The one genre of books we were determined not to carry was ‘Self-Help’, after years of enduring such philosophies from our mum. We were sick of it. However, the market dictates largely and we now stock them following overwhelming requests…” Her words, and the realisation that the ‘New Age Nigeria’ is well in session, stay with me.“No one is ever coming to save us. Everything we need, and will ever become reside in our hearts, and the commensurate resources to birth them exist right here within our locale. All ours for the taking – to pick up, polish, and perfect to our own unique appeal.”  I hear myself say out loud, virtually to the winds; wishing these words journey mercies onto the rightful ears. “Listen! If you’ve ever written a manuscript, one or more query letters, or a non-fiction proposal draft – anywhere outside these shores, and/or attended a pitch session in New York where no one can pronounce your name, with most urging you to “build a platform before you write”; you will come to honour, respect and indeed cherish your ability to self-publish and sell, or traditional publish and sell —all within your own market. Perhaps with even more reach and impact, getting your messages into the very communities that need those words the most.” The Lagos Book and Arts Festival delivers more than it promises, from celebrating books and the arts, the writers, publishers and distributors, recognising the buyers and readers, honouring artists and seasoned industry players; and immediately setting the template for next steps, by proactively introducing the 2019 theme. Mr. Toyin Akinosho, Secretary General of the Committee for Relevant Art (CORA – the organising body for LABAF); eloquently reveals ‘Emerge: Breaking into the New’ as next year’s focal point, to pay homage to the shift in government and how we all partake in shaping our future, following the upcoming General Elections in February 2019. This theme weaves adeptly into continuing a synchronised traverse from where we’re leaving off today –  ‘Renewal…A World that Works for All’; which itself is a natural progression from the 2017 theme ‘Eruption: Global Fractures and Our Common Humanity.’Perhaps of most conspicuous alarm though, is the “blinding absence” of mainstream media and/or visible corporate sponsors at this illustrious indigenous festival. It’s quite, perplexing, and noted for future iterations, knowing what we now know we will be sure to fix that – come 2019. Alas! As with all great engagements – which must come to an end, the people always stand out, and resonate. So while they don’t know it yet, the likes of Pelu Awofeso, award winning travel writer and blogger who is such the quintessential gentleman and teacher, Gbemi Shasore of Quramo Publishers, and Sam Osaze – LABAF’s volunteer’s unparalleled selfless lead coordinator, and ‘Mediapreneur’ will now have to figure the tactics to shake me off their tail feathers. How will I ever forget ‘The Green Queen’ – Madam Sola Alamutu, the astute Environmentalist; to whom most are sure I “pledge allegiance” as a muse, for “daring to sport my patriotic green ‘fro ever so unapologetically… While I ask “must I drop my pen now?” I know I will appreciate the uninterrupted deep slumber ahead of me; without waking in a pool of ‘panic’ sweat thinking “Darn! I’ve just missed a critical session at LABAF 2018…” Gbajabiamila, LABAF 2018 media team volunteer, is an experientialist / freelance writer / personal development and brand transformational coach. She is the founder Ginger By Aminah (The I’mPossible Networks), www.GingerByAminah  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .