Reality TV star and former exotic dancer, Blac Chyna is calling out her exes and baby daddies, Tyga and Rob Kardashian for failing to pay child support agreements. The mother of two went off in an Instagram Live and shamed her exes. Chyna has her first child, King Cairo for rapper Tyga while she shares her second child, Dream with Rob Kardashian. In a now-deleted Instagram live session, Chyna went off about how while Tyga and Rob are asking for more money, she is the one being treated like a bad guy. This is coming after Rob had in November 2018 alleged that he is paying N7,233,800 ($20,000) a month to Chyna. He had complained that the money was too much and he wanted the amount lowered. Tyga had also followed and asked for a reduction in how much he is paying. Chyna has however reacted in her live session saying, “Ya know what’s so wild to me is that I never asked Tyga for child support, Rob for child support or whatever and then we just went to court, or whatnot, and I tried to squash it, which I did. But none of that comes out. It’s only negative sh*t with Chyna, Angela White. We went to court mediation and sh*t and I squashed it ‘cause I never wanted no money from Rob, ‘cause it was never about that, period. I have kids by two guys that f**king tricked me, whatever, and they don’t give me sh*t, no child support and I’m sick of that sh*t. Rob didn’t help me, Tyga ain’t help me, [Tokyo] Toni ain’t help me, but like try to like, smack me down, period, and I’m just letting y’all know this, all this sh*t, I built BY MYSELF.” While Chyna deleted her Instagram live, “Gossip In The City”. Listen to the audio below:   @blacchyna clears up a lot … A post shared by  GOSSIPINTHECITY (@gossipinthecity) on Feb 11, 2019 at 1:05pm PST  It would be recalled that we reported earlier that Chyna’s mother, Toni Tokyo had said she would want Dream given to Rob because of Chyna’s current state. This came after her daughter ’s fight with ex-boyfriend, Kid Buu, and also getting into an altercation with Alexis Skyy who is reported to be dating Rob.