Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development, Mr. Olusade Adesola (right), presenting the humanity award to Total E&P Nigeria Ltd., represented by Executive Director, Corporate Affairs and Services, Mr. Abiodun Afolabi (left); EGM CSR, Mr. Vincent Nnadi and DGM Public Affairs and Communication, Mrs. Kenechi Esomeju at the 2019 World Para-powerlifting competition in Lagos…last week. The foreign Para-weightlifters at the just concluded International Para-weightlifting competition held in Lagos have described the hospitality from the state government as excellent. The championship featured athletes from Ghana, Guinea, Tanzania, Cameroon and Cote d’Ivoire and hosts, Nigeria. They spoke of their experiences and the exposure they got at the venue of the event, in Oriental Hotel, saying they were overwhelmed by the organisational arrangement and the conducive environment provided by the Lagos State government. The state government through the Lagos State Sports Commission, which provided accommodation, feeding, medical, transportation, security, ceremonial, venue and other facilities for the participants, supported the championship. One of the athletes from Ghana, Emmanuel Tettey Okay said: “The hospitality of Lagos State officials throughout our stay in Lagos for the competition is marvelous. Our stay is memorable and I am looking forward to coming back to Lagos in the very near future.” A para-powerlifter from Cote d’lvoire, Ano Adou Herve said: “I am happy to be here in Lagos for this Invitational Competition. The good hospitality of the people of Lagos and Lagos officials is commendable.” Also speaking on the event, the Chairman of Lagos State Sports Commission, Dr. Kweku Tandoh noted that the government of the state was very proud of supporting the 2019 International Para-powerlifting competition, adding, and “Our sports loving Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode is very passionate about promoting all sports.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .