 [FILE PHOTO] Vice President Yemi Osinbajo  Osinbajo’s spokesman Laolu Akande, in a statement on Friday in Abuja said that the vice president spoke on Thursday in Jos at a one-day special prayer forum for a peaceful 2019 elections in Plateau and Nigeria in general. The event was organised by the Plateau State Chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN). “The devil cannot interfere in the plans and purposes of God in our lives or in the life of our nation; it is impossible. “There is no way the gates of hell can ever prevail against the church because the church represents God’s plans and purposes on earth. “The role of the church to bring about the plans and purposes of God to pass in our nation is to fast and pray for those that are in government. “God’s plans and purposes for this nation rest on the shoulders of the Children of God. “It is your prayers that will make the difference for our nation. I want to say to you again that please continue to pray and fast for those of us who are in government because we are there as the seeds that God has planted in this nation. “We are the salt; we may not be plenty but salt does not have to be a lot to make a difference,” he said. The Vice President admonished Christians to look inward for solutions to the problems of the nation as looking elsewhere amounted to very big mistake. On his part, Gov. Simon Lalong of Plateau State said Osinbajo’s visit to the state for prayers a few days to the elections was a sign of a peaceful outcome. He thanked God for sparing the life of the vice president from the helicopter crash in Kogi recently. Rev. Fr. Polycarp Lubo, Plateau CAN Secretary said that the desire of the association was to have peaceful, free, fair and credible elections. He appreciated Osinbajo for honouring the invitation and prayed God to be with him during and after the elections. The programme featured special prayers for the political leaders in Nigeria and for peaceful elections. There were also praise and worship sessions. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .