 Images from our CCC match with Salitas, on Sunday, February 3, 2019. (Pix: Norbert Okolie)  The match at the Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium was the teams’ opening game of the group phase of the competition with the victory lifting Rangers to the top position in Group B. Rangers’ supporters did not have to wait for long before their side opened scoring with Godwin Aguda needing just two minutes into the game to beat Salitas goalkeeper, Sawadogo Adama for the opener. Stunned by the early goal, Salitas regrouped quickly and tried to get back on even terms, but the Rangers’ defence, led by Senegal’s Pape Sane, would have none of that. The first half ended 1-0 advantage Rangers. On resumption, Rangers went in search of a second goal, but the Burkinabes stood firm, using all available means to stop the home team from increasing the tally. But they caved in in the 60th minute when Isaac Loute bent a set-piece beyond Sawadogo Adama for the second goal. Stunned by the goal, the visitors brought in Traore, Bambara and Nana in search of better fortune, but Rangers held on to record their first win of the group stage. Rangers threw away several other chances including a late effort by substitute Bobby Clement, who fired over the bar when he was put clear on goal. Speaking after the game, a happy Rangers’ Coach, Gbenga Ogunbote said the win was a morale boaster for his team in the group, adding, “We worked for the victory and besides, the players played to instruction and I thank God our effort crowned at last.” Also speaking on the match, Salitas Coach, Ladji Coulibaly blamed ill-luck for their loss, saying they would come out victorious in their next group match. Salitas Captain, Ismael Zagre praised Rangers for a tough fight, adding, “We fought a good fight even though we lost at the end. That is football and tomorrow may be our day.” Rangers travel to CS Sfaxien of Tunisia for their second group game scheduled for February 13.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .