Daaor Victoria Daaor holds a PhD in Organizational Psychology and is the Chief Executive of Elohim Development Foundation a faith-based NGO in Makurdi, Benue State. She is a Management Consultant with skills in Health and Social Development Consultancy, a certified trainer on Gender and non-violence/ Peace building and has worked on several DFID and USAID projects in Nigeria as an independent consultant in the area of Programme Management. Daaor’s experience spans over 16 years of involvement in HIV/Aids research, programme planning and human resource management with bias to recruitment, team building and organizational conflict resolution. She is a member of the Benue State Gender Forum, a one- time secretary of the Benue State Network of NGOs (BENGONET) and a member of the Network of African Women non-violent Initiative for Change (AWANICH) based in Ghana. A youth mentor, she has reached out to over 10, 000 youths through her interactive talk show ‘Franktalk’ in four states. Through her organization, she carries out awareness campaigns on the dangers of illicit use of drugs amongst teenagers and has offered relationship and marriage counselling to many young people in Benue State. Her vast knowledge of the Nigerian terrain has her visit and work in over 33 states of the country. In this interview with IJEOMA THOMAS-ODIA, she shares her concerns for young people. WITH vast experience in social development especially among young people, what is your reaction to the increase in drug abuse among youths?
In my opinion the increase in drug use could be attributed to many factors one of which is the many dysfunctional homes we have in the society. By dysfunctional I do not mean homes where both parents are not together but homes where the necessary care and attention that the adolescent and young person should have are absent. This could lead to a void being formed in the life of the young person, a need to express his or herself but with no one to listen, a need for guidance and direction on some of life’s issues, which they might not be getting from home. In search of something to fill this void, the young person might at first experiment with drugs and when he or she finds some temporary relief from the confusion felt before, a habit is then formed. Also, access to unbridled information on social media and the Internet, which glorifies drug use in the lives of some celebrities, could act as a motivating factor. Some musical videos and the lyrics of some songs found everywhere on the Internet tends to suggest that drugs embolden and give some form of strength. This might sound very interesting to the young person who then begins to experiment. We must, however, not ignore the fact that some youths have gone into drug use accidentally. Some started taking some drugs to relieve pain like menstrual cramps and eventually developed tolerance for such drugs and eventually kept graduating to higher doses until they have become so dependent on these drugs. Availability of the drugs off the counter and by various vendors in our communities also has led to an increase in drug use. So, is there a way out of this menace that is slowly eating deep and destroying the lives of young people?
Yes, sensitization on the dangers of drug abuse and censorship of some of the adverts and contents of videos and music aired in country. Government must ensure that banned drugs like codeine and Tramadol are monitored. These drugs are usually bought from vendors and patent medicine dealers. A strong campaign should be carried on to these vendors and clear punitive measures spelt out. Parents must pay attention to their growing children, listen to their needs and offer guidance especially during the teenage years. Observation would help parents identify or notice changes in behaviour and help them take action before its too late. The society must also rise up to the challenge by watching out for the young people in its midst to help curb illicit drug use. Do you think the government is doing enough for the youths? 
Yes. I think the government is doing some things for the youth but there is room for a lot more to be done. Thanks to the N-power programme and other initiatives, but creating an enabling environment for businesses to thrive is more important than giving stipends to unemployed graduates. Encouraging young people by giving them grants and ensuring that those who have served their terms in office make way for a younger generation is something that every government must be concerned with. What role do you think the youths should play at the elections as they clamour for change and make up the majority of Nigeria’s population?
Firstly they need to be sure they come out to vote. Any youth who does not vote has no right to complain about bad governance. They need to ensure that they do not sell their votes and that they also protect their votes. Youths should shun electoral violence and refuse to be used by politicians to disrupt otherwise peaceful elections. I also think that young people should be ready to be schooled in how the game of politics is played, study their country, know what the issues are and build capacity to be a solution and not a part of the problem. Why are you passionate about humanitarian services especially with young people? 
I wish I could say it’s because of this or that. I am not so sure but I know that I grew up hating injustice and hating to see people suffer. I always wanted to help make life easier for people in need and as a Christian I know that I am commanded to love people. That aside, I actually enjoy working with vulnerable groups to achieve their goals. I wish we did not have to have conflicts and other situations that necessitate humanitarians to always be on their toes but I guess as long as the earth remains there will always be such situations. My focus on the youth is a call. I am naturally drawn to young people and I seem to understand their challenges and fears and it gives me a lot of joy to see them overcome their fears. Charity is love. You cannot love and not give and I love humanity, therefore, I give as I can for there were times when I was also given and I know how grateful I was for the help. How have you been able to balance your home front with all the many other caps you wear passionately? 
Doggedness, setting my priorities and having the support of my husband; I need to point out that I did not become all these in one day. I had to prioritize which should come first at a particular period of my life. While the children were still under 10, I minimized my jobs to local jobs and jobs that did not take me away from home for more than a day or two. With their growth I could travel more. The periods when I was always in town I continued with my education. I must say it was not easy to juggle all. Sometimes I made mistakes of judgment but with time I developed a rhythm that was convenient. My husband and I had an understanding of my dreams and for most part he was very supportive. That really helped me as I could leave the home for days and he would cover for me. It gave me the leeway to achieve so much more. What is your advice to young women on pursuing career and taking care of the home front? 
I would like to say both career and homes are important but you must plan how the progression will be. It might take longer to achieve your dream career when you concentrate on the home, but ultimately you would be happy you paid the price to bring up your kids. Make use of all the support you can get. If your siblings or mum or in-laws are willing to live with and help with the kids, by all means accept the help. Take advantage of technology, have a good freezer so you can cook and store. Take advantage of free days to give extra attention to the home so your being busy most of the week does not create too much of a void. Most importantly discuss with your spouse before marriage. Do not marry a man who does not understand or accept your dreams, as he is then not obligated to support you. Prioritise everything but whatever you do take care of your family because after the career is over, family is all you’ve got. How has your growing up influenced your interests?
It has in so many ways. I grew up in the city of Jos and both my parents are from different states in Nigeria. I schooled most of my life in Jos but attending Federal Government College Jos was a strong factor in shaping my view of the world. We were children from all over Nigeria with different backgrounds and beliefs but we lived and bonded as one big family. This has made me able to cope and survive anywhere in the world and easy for me to adapt. I think that is one project the Federal Government got right. However, whether the products of these schools are making the difference in the country today is another question entirely. My upbringing moulded me into a lover of all people no matter their tribe or religious affiliations and this has greatly helped me in the path my life has taken. Any fun memories you like to share?
I remember my days in the University of Jos when we would travel for activities in other universities and return in Jos late in the night. We could still find bikes to take us to the hostels or if we liked we would trek back to the hostels at those ungodly hours, shouting, laughing and generally making fun without any fears of being attacked by anyone. Sadly those days are gone, as the state of insecurity in the nation does not allow for such carefree behaviour anymore.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .