 Bowen University  The Dean, Faculty of Basic Medical and Health Sciences of the university, Prof Matthew Olaogun who disclosed this said the era of churning out unemployable graduates is over and tasked leading institutions to produce graduates who would be able to compete globally. He said, “As we pursue academic excellence by running market-driven courses, we are also promoting creative thinking and entrepreneurship drive for our students irrespective of their discipline. This is just as we are improving the physical infrastructure of the entire university, our global collaborations and ranking and the library services driven by Information and Communication Technology (ICT). Olaogun, a professor of physiotherapy and former lecturer at the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU Ile Ife, explained that the faith-based institution, which has been steadily improving in its tripartite functions of teaching, research and community service is committed to make its products not only employable but globally competitive. While noting that all the programmes being run by the institution across faculties and departments including physiotherapy are fully accredited by the National Universities Commission (NUC), the scholar said the university is determined to ensure its core values, which centre on godliness, excellence, entrepreneurship, innovation and social responsibility are not compromised. “Bowen University is also improving daily on the welfare of students, lecturers and non-academic staff by ensuring they are enjoying learning and working environment according to world best practices. Our hostels facilities and academic arena are fast becoming world-class standard as they are now being provided with required facilities. The whole essence is to make our students and members of staff have worthwhile experiences. “Our graduates must not only be imbued with Christ-like character and sterling leadership qualities, they must also be globally competitive,” he added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .