Lobi Stars • Lobi Stars Meet Morocco’s Wydad In CAF Champions League
Nigeria’s Flying Eagles will begin their bid for a Poland 2019 FIFA U-20 World Cup ticket today in Niamey, Niger Republic where they face Burundi in their Group A opening game. It is the African U-20 Nations Cup, which presents the four semifinalists tickets to the world championship in Poland in May and June. Nigeria has won the competition seven times and against Burundi, the neutrals tip the Flying Eagles to carry the day. After today’s game, Nigeria will face
South Africa on February 5 and hosts, Niger Republic three days later. The first two teams in Group A will meet their counterparts from Group B in the semifinals. Group B has Senegal, Mali, Burkina Faso and Ghana fighting for the semifinals tickets. Meanwhile, Lobi Stars of Makurdi will face Wydad Athletic Club of Morocco in a matchday three CAF Champions League group match at the Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium, Enugu today. The match was earlier fixed to hold yesterday, but was moved to today due to political activities at the stadium yesterday. Lobi Stars’ Coach, Solomon Ogbeide told journalists yesterday that his team was ready for the North Africans, stressing that his boys had no inferiority complex. He acknowledged that Wydad Casablanca had a higher rating in Africa, adding, however, that his team would do everything possible to take the three points at stake. “Wydad are among the best on the continent but this game is very much important to us and we have prepared so hard for it. “We have seen the peculiar nature of the group and anyone that jokes with his home games will have himself to blame. “We have respect for Wydad but we must claim maximum points from the game to ensure that our prospect of picking one of the two tickets remains intact.” Lobi Stars, who are third on the log with three points, will climb to the top of the table with victory today. All the teams have won a game each in the series.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .