PHOTO: Suspects arrested in Ibadan for alleged cyber crime. Facebook/OfficialEFCC Operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission(EFCC) arrested 19 suspected internet fraudsters at Ologuneru and Akobo areas of  Ibadan. The Acting Head of Media and Publicity for EFCC, Tony Orilade, made this known in a press statement on Friday. The suspects were arrested in a sting operation led the Zonal head, Friday Ebelo. The EFCC operatives recovered from the suspects one female pant and other fetish materials associated with internet fraudsters. According to Orilade, the suspects are between the ages 21 and 35, with five of them claiming to be undergraduates while the other 10 claimed to be self-employed in varied vocations. The anti-graft agency received intelligence report of the various fraudulent activities the suspects engaged in. According to Orilade, the suspects obtained money by false pretences through sending of scam emails to unsuspecting victims mostly in the United States of America, while others were engaged in romance scam on several dating sites. The commission said they recovered cars, laptops, telephones and fetish items from the arrest. “EFCC operatives recovered four different models and brands of exotic cars, five laptops, 20 telephones (10 iPhones) and one small bag containing items suspected to be fetish objects (juju) from them. Several documents, including international passports, and ATM cards were recovered from them.” Orilade, therefore, gave out the names of the suspects, stating that the suspects are already helping operatives with useful information. In another operation, the operatives arrested four other suspects at their hideout at Akobo, Ibadan. The suspects, also between the age of 21 and 30 years, were arrested following intelligence reports that the suspected fraudsters engaged in fraudulent activities of obtaining money by false pretences from unsuspecting victims. EFCC operatives recovered SIM cards, one exotic car, laptops, telephones, female underwears and four bags of fetish objects (juju) from them. Several documents containing false pretences were also recovered from the suspects. The agency noted that all the arrested individuals will soon be charged to court.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .