We reported earlier that popular comic actor, Baba Suwe is down with chronic diabetes. In the wake of the news of the actor’s failing health going public, colleagues and fans have rallied together to raise cash for him to undergo necessary treatment. Fellow actor, Yomi Fabiyi in an update to the situation has revealed that millions have been raised for Baba Suwe’s treatment. According to Fabiyi, some other colleagues who have raised cash for Baba Suwe include actresses, Iyabo Ojo and Liz Anjorin. Taking to social media, Fabiyi wrote: “UPDATE on BABA SUWE: In less than 48 hours, my fans have sent me screenshots of deposits they made and have raised million+ to SAVE BABA SUWE. I am close to tears. My cults, my backbones, am honoured. However, colleagues such as Liz Anjorin, Iyabo Ojo, Adekaz Films & Marketing, Wale Olaleye(Journalist) are few others who confirmed deposits and invariably sent evidence to me, I understand many people have also deposited, namaste. I am equally aware TAMPAN NATIONAL via her LAGOS CHAPTER sent delegation already and will come up with something shortly. All other NGOs are well appreciated. Several other numerous colleagues and Baba Suwe’s fans are really mobilizing for funds and things are adding up. I must commend all those that have visited him at home including Kazeem Abimbola(Jigan Babaoja) and seen donating cash. Uncle Kola Olootu, the iconic broadcaster for the big effort and pragmatic approach. All media houses are valued. Owing to some sudden new ailments, re-evaluation and costing are very necessary to avoid discrepancies. As it stands, the veteran requires SERIOUS URGENT MEDICARE, which will, of course, run into multiple millions of Naira if the last costing is anything to go by. I shall lose no time to intimate you as soon as the target is reasonable. We assure judicious use of the funds. Lastly, as seen and heard in one of his recent appeal videos, “stroke” was mentioned amongst other ailments. Flying him out of the country asap is a top priority if we are to achieve a futile remedy bearing in mind he has an existing treatment in the United States of America. Progress report assured. In the meantime, Baba Suwe and his family are eternally grateful for the extreme show of love and duty of care from all his fans, colleagues and well-wishers home and abroad within such a short period and economic situations. With humility and gratitude, he accepts your magnanimity and support. It is a trying period for him, he believes with God and the rate you all rallied round him, HE WILL SURVIVE this.
While thanking you for your persons and esteem kindness, your prayers are seriously needed.
Regards. – Yomi Fabiyi
(PA to Baba Suwe, 2001 – 2005)19/02/2019.” Read More: Mr Latin Addresses Baba Suwe’s Ill-health Situation