The 2019 Grammys is over but not yet out. This year’s award show definitely had its moments with the likes of the former first lady of the United States, Michelle Obama, surprisingly show up to give support to her girl and host, Alicia Keys. It was also a women’s moment as some of the fast-rising acts, H.E.R and Cardi B took home a Grammy for her “Invasion of Privacy”. To downplay the impact of her album is to undermine her capability. Thus, “the underdog” took home the award for “Best rap album”, a win for girl power. More, so, she became the first female to win in that category as a solo artiste. An astonished Cardi B took to the stage to give her thanks for winning in a category that had Pusha T, Travis Scott and Mac Miller. Now herein lies the problem, fans have said that they acknowledged that she has definitely had a good year but to give her the crown in that category? Naaaw! J. Cole, Eminem, lil Wayne, Drake, Travis Scott, meek mill, and 21 savage all had albums this past year, but Cardi B won best rap album of the year??
That’s weird, considering the numbers they had #Grammys2019 #FuckTheGrammys — Zachary Sanchez™® (@Fuckin_Zackk) February 11, 2019  Drake, J. Cole, Eminem and Travis Scott put out projects this year and y’all gave best rap album to Cardi B pic.twitter.com/H5zQ3nq79X — andy  (@realswellandy) February 11, 2019  In a year that J Cole and Eminem dropped fire albums, Cardi went on to win the best rap album lmao. We all need to stop making the #Grammys a yardstick for ultimate excellence. They just pick who they like now. — BREZZIDENT (@OlaTheOG) February 11, 2019  While Cardi B’s win has raised concerns in no small measure, how can we forget Drake’a God Plan and his win in the best rap category? God’s Plan wasn’t even a rap song, like the guy was singing. And he won over Eminem’s Lucky You?  Wtf — devsploofeek (@sploofeek) February 11, 2019  I’ll take Pusha T’s facial reaction to Drake winning “Best Rap Song” as consolation. Dude came all the way to the GRAMMYs to see the dude he “smoked” win “Best Rap Song” then take an L to Cardi B for “Best Rap Album”. This sh*t feels better than any crack he could EVER sell me  pic.twitter.com/FxTaNjw3Wq — Jojo (@JoeyDrumzSA) February 11, 2019  In this trying times for fans, they have turned to the words of their prophet Eminem Since it’s #GRAMMYs day, it only right to be reminded of Eminem talking about how it really goes with them.  pic.twitter.com/Bo89cOZ7HH — ᴱᴹᴵᴺƎᴹ ᴮᴱᴸᴵᴱᵛᴱᴰ (@EminemBelieved) February 10, 2019  Did the Grammys go low, you be the judge.