 Kia Motor  The Lagos City Marathon is one of the most renowned marathons in Africa with over 400 professional athletes across the globe running in the race. In recent years, it has become the best-known marathon in Nigeria and one of the fastest growing in the world. At the 4th edition of the marathon, over 120,000 runners lined up at the start in, both the elite race, the 42Km, and the 10Km fun race. Kia Motors, as the automobile partner of the marathon, the 2019 Kia Sportage led the race as the clock cars and the project vehicles for the race, while the all-new Kia Rio models were slated for winners of the 10Km fun race. The 10km race according to Kia, was earmarked as part of efforts to encourage local representation of Nigerians in the marathon. The winners, Hart Priscilla and Abdulateef Olufunmi were rewarded with a brand new Kia Rio respectively. Speaking at the official presentation of the cars to winners of the race, Vice President, Business Development, Kia Motors Nigeria, Olu Tikolo, said the presentation of the cars was an opportunity for the Kia Motors brand to fulfil its promise. Tikolo said the marathon is a test of endurance and durability, which Kia represents. “Kia cars are durable, reliable and the endurance level is high. Kia is associated with sport development across the world. Kia is known for sports development worldwide,” He said. Head of Events and Sponsorship, Access Bank Plc, Oge Nwachukwu, reiterated the bank’s commitment to partner with Kia Motors to render support for the marathon and foster integration, sportsmanship among Nigerians. “We cannot underestimate the success and impact the race as brought upon the country and the financial institution.” One of the winners, Abdulateef Olufemi, was full of excitement saying the car is a challenge for him to aim higher. Olufemi who is a footballer said he had the passion for fitness and trained for a week to achieve the feat and was not expecting the gift, which came as a surprise to him. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .