 [FILE PHOTO] INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu  According to the commission, elections are all about the people. “Nigerians have demonstrated extra-ordinary resilience and abiding faith in democracy and the electoral process. We wish to reiterate our commitment to protecting the sanctity of the ballot and the integrity of the choices made by Nigerians at the polls,” the commission stated. Briefing newsmen in Abuja, INEC chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, said the commission met and reviewed the processes and challenges arising from the conduct of the elections based on reports received from its states’ offices nationwide as well as information from the various citizens’ contact platforms. “Similarly, despite our best effort to enhance the functionality of the Smart Card Readers (SCRs), we experienced technical glitches in some locations. “Through the deployment of 8,809 Registration Area Technical Support (RATECH) that we engaged as ad hoc, many of these glitches were successfully rectified, which enabled voting to take place seamlessly in the affected polling units (Pus) nationwide,” Yakubu said. Meanwhile, Yakubu has stated that only the commission reserves the right to tally figures, announce result and declare winners in the general election. He stated this at the International Conference Centre (ICC) in Abuja. The chairman urged all stakeholders to strictly adhere to the provisions of the law and be circumspect in this respect. “We are doing everything possible to ensure the speedy collation of results and the declaration of winners for the elections,” he added. He reiterated the commission’s commitment to protecting the sanctity of the ballot and the integrity of the choices made by Nigerians at the polls. “The commission met and reviewed the processes and challenges arising from the conduct of the elections based on reports received from our state offices nationwide as well as information harvested from our various citizens’ contact platforms.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .