 [FILE PHOTO] Fayose.  He describing President Muhammadu Buhari’s victory in last Saturday’s Presidential and National Assembly election as one which was secured ‘at the barrel of the gun’ and as such, the winner deserves no celebration. Fayose, who reacted in a statement issued yesterday by his Media Aide, Lere Olayinka, said: “Rather than congratulate President Buhari, who will be leading our country against our wish as a nation, Nigerians deserve commendation for their courage.” He described the roles of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and security agencies in the election as shameful, saying, “Their inordinate and inglorious desire to deprive Nigerians of a credible leadership was made manifest from the very beginning.” He also lamented what he described as the brazen manner in which the elections were conducted and ‘won’, adding that this further played out the reason Justice Walter Onnoghen was removed as Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN). “Today, Nigerians are cowed and captured at the barrel of the gun evidently by the non-celebration of this Pyrrhic victory by anyone in Nigeria except those who hope to benefit directly from it, which is characteristics of a thief that came in the night to deprive residents of their belongings, leaving them in anguish and nightmare.” “This election will remain in the annals of our history as a rape on democracy. “Rather than celebrating today, Nigerians, especially those whose loved ones were brutally murdered for a cabal to sustain their hold on the country are moody and sad. “However, in their quiet moment, they are consoled with the fact that no one can attain everlasting joy by subjecting others to perpetual sorrow. “The blood of innocent Nigerians who were killed to actualise this inordinate ambition, will speak justice on the heads of the perpetrators and beneficiaries of the killings and also speak better things for our tomorrow, having made the supreme sacrifice,” he stated. While reiterating his commitment to defend the oppressed in the country, he said, “As already known, I am not afraid of arrest and detention. I have been persecuted and still being persecuted because of my stand on national issues and I will remain undaunted.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .