21-year-old business mogul, Kylie Jenner has insisted she has never undergone the knife in reaction to speculations that she has had her face reconstructed through plastic surgery. The mother of one who is the cover star of the March issue of Paper Magazine shut down the rumours saying, “People think I fully went under the knife and completely reconstructed my face, which is completely false. I’m terrified. I would never.” Jenner who is dating rapper, Travis Scott thanked makeup and fillers for her facial features that have sparked speculations about the surgery. Jenner has in the past talked about using makeup to over-line her lips while also issuing the plastic surgery denial. “They don’t understand what good hair and makeup and, like, fillers, can really do,” she said. Of fillers, she said, “I’m not denying that.” She first opened up about using lip filler in 2015 on an episode of her family’s hit reality TV show, “Keeping Up With the Kardashians”. She said at the time, “I have temporary lip fillers, it’s just an insecurity of mine and it’s what I wanted to do. I’m just not ready to talk to reporters about my lips yet because everyone always picks us apart. I want to admit to the lips, but people are so quick to judge me on everything, so I might have tiptoed around the truth, but I didn’t lie.” Also in 2015, she opened up about her lips in an interview with the New York Times. “I still do Juvéderm (a filler) for my lips. I go to Dr. (Simon) Ourian in Beverly Hills. He’s the best, and he’s super-natural about it,” she told the newspaper. “I was going to somebody before, and it was just looking crazy.” In the same 2015, Jenner told Grazia Magazine, “I haven’t had plastic surgery. I’ve never been under the knife. People flashback to pictures of me when I was 12 and say ‘Kylie’s so different,’ but how can I look the same from 12 to 18?’” On how makeup transforms lives, the beauty entrepreneur said, “Makeup is something that makes me feel empowered, makes me feel good, and I think it’s such a positive thing. There’s no harm in playing around with it and feeling good about yourself.” Jenner went on to speak on how her parents financially cut her off when she was younger. “My parents told me I needed to make my own money, it’s time to learn how to save and spend your own money, stuff like that. What I’m trying to say is I did have a platform, but none of my money is inherited.” In the meanwhile, check out her photoshoot from the Paper magazine cover below,