 President Muhammadu Buhari at Delta State All Progressives Congress (APC) campaign  The source boasted that the ruling party under the Buhari administration has achieved more than enough to retain power not minding the prevalent rate of poverty and hunger, which appear to have eroded the trust and confidence of the Nigerian masses in the government. The incumbent himself exhibited similar confidence of retaining power if the election had held on Saturday when granting an interview to CNN Africa in his hometown Daura about a day to the poll, saying that nobody could unseat him.  Although, INEC has placed a ban on campaign and collection of Permanent Voter’s Card (PVC) till the elections hold next Saturday, the decision has been described as deliberate attempt by the commission to muzzle the rising popularity of the opposition party to the advantage of the ruling party.For instance, the governorship candidate of PDP in Lagos, Mr. Jimi Agbaje, while reacting to the development, said the postponement is not good for our democracy as it is capable of eroding confidence in the entire electoral process, apart from damaging the credibility of INEC.
 
According to him,  “This can put a question mark on even the results of the elections, especially if, God forbid, it now favours the ruling party. The commission had given no hint it would be a barren weekend for Nigerians geared up to vote.”But a Southwest socio-cultural group, Yoruba Ronu Forum, has cautioned leaders of APC, PDP and other stakeholders to exercise restraint in making inflammatory comments against INEC, as events turned out since Saturday. The group said it is expedient for political actors to check for facts before hurriedly crucifying INEC. Speaking with The Guardian on the telephone, Secretary General of the group, Akin Malaolu, said although Yoruba Ronu must confess its sadness over the postponement, the unfortunate and hurried judgment being passed on the umpire by leaders across the two major political parties in the contest was unfortunate. He said INEC, being an independent body, has the right to postpone any election if logistics goes wrong suddenly or anyhow, even if at the eleventh hour to the election. 
 
Malaolu said in spite of the postponement the results of the elections would not be different from what Nigerians had expected even if there should be another postponement again.In another reaction, a Lagos-base advertising practitioner, Alhaji Saheed Odusanya, urged the commission to look inward because a week’s postponement may not be feasible to address necessary issues, saying, “I will rather advice that INEC should give Nigerians a month’s notice so that they can be fully prepared for the elections.
 
In the final analysis, the postponement appears to have created a kind of level playing ground for Buhari and Atiku, while it would also make it extremely difficult if not impossible for any government’s agency to unduly interfere or use it to achieve any undue outcome. The integrity of the electoral commission is also going to be put to great test while Nigerians are now more than ready than they were before to ensure their wish is respected on Saturday if at all INEC would not further shift the polls.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .