Whether we work long hours because our business demands or stick to scheduled office hours, work has a way of taking a toll on the human body. As much as working these long hours have its good sides – you learn time management, be responsible of your needs and probably others, people admire your effort, etc. – it has its bad sides. These bad sides, however, include not having a social life and most importantly a very terrible eating habit or none at all. With your ‘’eating habit’’ being the focus of this article, you should bear in mind that including snacking to your usual work routine is strongly advised. You might be reluctant to do this because you feel you have superpowers capable of withstanding hunger, but the truth is food and its nutrients play a vital role in maintaining the strength used in keeping up with that schedule. The major importance of snacking healthily includes the fact that it helps keep you from getting overly hungry while at work and it also keeps your energy level in check if you do it right. Another interesting thing is that it prevents one from overeating because eating heavy meals on an empty stomach can be dangerous. In other words, it helps you eat appropriately. Healthy snacking helps keep your blood sugar levels steady or even, especially if you eat a consistent amount of carbs at each meal or snack. This is especially helpful for diabetics, but also beneficial for people without diabetes, since large spikes and dips in blood sugar levels may make insulin resistance, Type 2 diabetes, obesity, heart disease and high blood pressure more likely over time. Lastly, as long as you choose nutritious snacks, it will help you meet your nutrient needs for the day. Although it’s fine to have a less-than-healthy snack every once in a while, most of your snacks should consist of nutrient-dense foods like fruits, vegetables, biscuits (crackers), low-fat dairy – dark chocolate (study shows Cacao is a great source of magnesium, which is a natural stress-reliever), and nuts (cashew, almonds).