Oyo State Governor and candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo South Senatorial district Senator Abiola Ajimobi has congratulated the candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Kola Balogun for his victory in the National Assembly election. Ajimobi, who contested the seat of Oyo South Senatorial district in the Senate, polled 92, 579 while Balogun won with 105, 720. “The results of the Oyo South Senatorial districts have been released by INEC (Independent National Electoral Commission) indicating that I lost to the PDP (Peoples Democratic Party) candidate. I hereby accept the result as announced,” Ajimobi said in a statement by his media aide Bolaji Tunji. “Although there were a number of grievous infractions and established electoral malpractices, I have decided to let go in the interest of peace. I, therefore, congratulate the declared winner, Hon Kola Balogun and our other Senators-elect, Abdulfatai Buhari and Teslim Folarin.” Ajimobi also expressed appreciation to the people of Oyo State, who voted for President Muhammadu Buhari and the party’s candidates in the presidential and National Assembly elections. The Governor equally congratulated APC candidates in the state for winning nine out of the available 14 Federal Constituency seats and two out of the three Senatorial seats in the National Assembly. “If I lose the ticket and the party was able to gain, then it is nothing to feel sad about. APC has done well but we can always do better. If out of three Senatorial seats, we won two and out of 14 federal constituency seats, we picked nine, then we should congratulate ourselves,” Ajimobi said. The Governor enjoined all APC members to ensure victory for the party in the Saturday, March 9 governorship election, saying the battle is not over yet. “With the impressive results we currently have, we should proudly go forth with a greater sense of confidence and unity of purpose. Let us work together to ensure victory for our governorship candidate, Bayo Adelabu and all our candidates for the House,” Ajimobi said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .