The donation of sports kits and equipment to the Badminton Federation on Thursday by the Dominion Total Sports Ventures will boost Nigeria’s chances of qualification for the event in the 2022 Olympics in Tokyo, Japan. The Badminton Federation of Nigeria (BFN) has received a donation of sports kits and other equipment, which will boost its chances of taking part in the 2020 Olympics in Tokyo, Japan. At a presentation ceremony on Thursday in Abuja, the BFN’s president, Frank Orbih together with other members of the board said the gestures of Dominion Total Sports Ventures was timely because it would assist the national teams’ quest to win the upcoming All Africa Badminton Seniors in Port Harcourt, Rivers State in April. “Dominion Total Sports Ventures has come to partner with us in an important area. These gestures will help our national teams in their preparations to garner ranking points from the numerous tournaments they would be playing this year starting with the Port Harcourt championship. We say a big thank you to Dominion Total Sports Ventures,” Orbih said. The firm’s representative, Tolu Agboola said they chose to assist badminton federation for the growth of the sport, adding that the federation’s dedication and enthusiasms to take the sport to another level was key. “The leadership of BFN has given us the opportunity to contribute our quota to the development of badminton in Nigeria. We are giving these kits and sports playing equipment in support of the federation for taking badminton to the next level. “We have seen the enormous efforts they have put in the last two years since they came on board. We decided to support the federation to take the game to the highest level and if given the opportunity we want to do more. I will like to encourage the players through the captain of the men’s national team to do their best at all times in other to make Nigeria proud,” Agboola stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .