 Ilupeju Garden  The projects were showcased to business leaders, property developers, investors, media professionals and the broad real estate development ecosystem, last week, the iconic projects are of some of the latest offerings in  Nigeria’s real estate market. Eden Heights is a network of high-rise luxury apartments and penthouses catering to the city’s bourgeoise middle-class and expatriate population. Situated at the hub of Victoria Island, it features the exclusive capital club, Ehima cave spa, royal residencies with premium hotel rooms and world-class private meeting rooms for top level executives and business owners. Ilupeju Gardens, a small and intimate estate of mid-rise apartments and maisonettes , being developed in partnership with the Lagos State Development Property Corporation (LSDPC), sits in the vibrant Lagos mainland and caters to residents in the bustling Oshodi/Ilupeju axis – particularly the Indian and Lebanese expatriate community. The ambitious Garden project offers a unique technology feature that intersects between real estate and climate safety, deploying planted Neem trees in the environs with a filtering capacity of up to 1000 residents annually. The Garden boosts of 202 units comprising 1 bed-room to 4 bed-room apartments, with elevator for each unit with affordable offering with the range of N30 million and N70 million Speaking on the two projects, Chief Executive Officer of the Design Union, Mr  Anthony Aihie said with these two additions to its pipe of property development projects, Design Union continues to demonstrate its market leadership and commitment to bridge the gap in the supply and demand value chain in the real estate sector. Building on an investment track record and portfolio size of over $600 million, the organization, he said, champions a new wave of excellence and innovation in property development designed to scale up user experience and attract foreign global capital in Africa. He said:  “In keeping with the vision of solving living conditions in Africa, Design Union has leveraged its creative and project execution expertise in creating Eden Heights, a development whose attention to detail provides a world-class platform for business leaders to live and relax at the same standards found in the leading business destination cities of the world.” “With investments like this, our mission is to provide an international environment, which over time will indeed become the centre of attraction for international business leaders on the bustling Victoria Island, securing enormous value and returns for patrons while creating a much-needed positive image for the country and local talent. Referring to the Ilupeju Gardens project, Mr Aihie added, “the ingenuity of the environmentally sustainable design of Ilupeju Gardens development will redefine the standards in the middle-income housing market when completed in 2021.” Also the  Naitonal Sales manager, Mrs Gbemi Sijuade said the firm is offering  flexible payment packages  and  mortage plans with n attriactive  interrst rate from Trustfund mortgage bank for prospective clients  in Ilupeju  Gardens. She said the payment plan is betwwen 5- 10 years on 127 per cent interst. Mrs Sijuade said  project was in response to the firms decisosn to provide shelter for the teeming nigeria populartion who are homeles and welcome development in Africa’s most populous city where issues of accommodation and population density have been recurring themes among key development players. She urged investors to buy off plans while the property is still green in the market. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .