 PHOTO: Twitter/NGSuper_Falcons  The tournament is billed to commence on Feb. 27, in Larnaca, Cyprus. NFF Director of Communication, Ademola Olajire, who made the announcement in a statement on Friday, added that the team would depart the country through the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja. Olajire said Head Coach, Thomas Dennerby had selected 24 players for the tournament, which will also feature countries like: South Africa, Mexico, Italy, Finland, Belgium, Slovakia, Korea DPR, Czech Republic, Thailand, Hungary and Austria. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Super Falcons’ first match of the tournament is against Austria on Feb. 27. They will then face Slovakia on March 1 in their second game and their last match in the group is against Belgium on March 4. Wednesday, March 6 has been fixed for the final match of the competition, as well as other classification matches. Olajire disclosed that players and officials are scheduled to return to Nigeria via Abuja on Friday, with training sessions on Friday evening, Saturday and Sunday morning, before their departure for Cairo by Egypt Air on Sunday evening. He said the delegation was expected to sleep in Cairo on Sunday and arrive Larnaca on Monday. Olajire added that former African Woman Player of the Year, Asisat Oshoala, and fellow striker, Desire Oparanozie, who both missed the China Women’s Tournament in January, are included in the 24-member squad. He gave the full list of the squad as Goalkeepers: Tochukwu Oluehi, Christy Ohiaeriaku, and Chiamaka Nnadozie Defenders: Glory Ogbonna, Faith Michael, Onome Ebi, Osinachi Ohale, Josephine Chukwunonye, and Ngozi Ebere. Midfielders: Amarachi Okoronkwo, Ngozi Okobi, Rita Chikwelu, Halimatu Ayinde, and Cecilia Nku. Forwards: Anam Imo, Asisat Oshoala, Rasheedat Ajibade, Francisca Ordega, Chinaza Uchendu,  Chinwendu Ihezuo, Alice Ogebe, Ini-Abasi Umotong, Alice Ogebe, and Uchenna Kanu.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .