 Dr Femi Olomola  According to Mrs. Adekunbi Olomola, who is overseeing her late husband foundation, the award is aimed as complementing a set of computer graphics equipment donated to the institution May 2017 to commemorate the one-year remembrance of Dr Femi Olomola’s demise. The equipment donated includes 10 computers, one air-conditioning unit, as well as refurbishing of the Studio. Similarly, the Foundation is in the process of establishing a skill acquisition centre in Ilesha, Osun State (Femi Olomola’s hometown), aimed at alleviating poverty particularly among vulnerable groups such as women, widows and youth. The centre will focus on the acquisition of skills such as fashion design, confectionery and sugar craft, event decorations, and design appreciation. Besides gifting numerous medical drugs to the Hospital where he was treated at Ogba in Lagos, the Olomola Foundation also donated two wheelchairs and a physiotherapy walker to the Department of Nephrology, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State. Meanwhile, Mrs. Olomola who is a retired Director of Education, Lagos State Public Service, has called for adequate maintenance of public infrastructure to enhance their life span and sustenance. Olomola made the call recently in Lagos during her statutory retirement after 35 years in public service and 60th birthday celebration. She said lack of maintenance culture among Nigerians, particularly in the public schools, was responsible for the dearth of infrastructure facilities in the country. According to her, government schools have lots of infrastructure, equipment and new projects, but lack the ability to monitor, maintain and sustain them. Olomola said: “Generally, we believed in new projects, which is good; but what matters is their sustenance. “If the Government Technical College will maintain and sustain the existing equipment, machines and educational instruments, it will go a long way to improve the educational development of the state.” She, however, urged non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and good spirited Nigerian to assist in the provision of more equipment and facilities to aid educational development. Mrs Olomola, a graphic artist and formerly Head of Miscellaneous Department at the Government Technical College in Lagos, is the widow of Dr Femi Olomola, the 21st President of the Nigerian Institute of Town Planners (NITP), who passed on May 31, 2016 after a brief illness. He was aged 65. In his remarks, Mr Ololade Olugbemi, the Principal, Government Technical College, Lagos, enjoined civil servants in the public schools to be more innovative, tolerance and emulate Olomola in the course of discharging their duties. Olugbemi said that the retiree, through the assistance of Lions’ Club, Ikeja, created and restructured the school Printing and Graphic Department and donated the first two sets of computers used by students in the school. The principal stressed the need to encourage and mentor the students in their academic pursuit. He said that the students only need support and encouragement from the teachers, governments and organisations to bring their creative minds to the fore. Olugbemi said: “The retiree is a world changer in work place. She built capacities for skills development. “She motivated students through small scholarship scheme, enhance them with weekend and holiday jobs so as to make them earn income genuinely to progress their studies instead of begging or engaging in inappropriate behaviours.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .