For selflessly promoting Gyaku Ryu Karate-Do, a school of martial art and physical fitness, The Guardian Newspapers Limited was at the weekend given the Best Media Organisation of the Year award by the promoters of the sport. Presenting a certificate of achievement to The Guardian’s correspondent in Jos, Coach Shihan Idris Hussaini said he could not thank the newspaper enough for promoting peace on the Plateau and Nigeria at large. The event was the Gyaku Ryu Karate-Do yearly event usually organised to host all the coaches from across the world. This year’s event was attended by delegates from some other African countries, including Senegal. Hussaini explained that Karate is a Japanese system of martial art developed during their war to protect themselves and the interest and the integrity of their country and their homes. He explained that after observing the good aspect of the art in an unarmed combat (self-defence), the world decided to embrace it, which is why it is practiced today all over the world. Also speaking at the event, one of the officials of the Nigerian Committee of Referees of Karate, Shihan Abdullahi Mohammed from Kaduna State regretted that Nigerian youths were being used by politicians to cause violence, adding that if government invested in Karate sport, it would help in putting an end to violence among the youths. “If government, for instance, will spend about N40 million in combating security issues in a state or a local government, give Karate just N10 million, they will drive away all the violent youths from the streets and there will be no violence. “Why do they go into violence? It is because they do not have jobs. In fact, if government could give this money, it will be channeled in the proper way because we have state officials of Karate, who are in charge of administration of the sport. Let there be events, championships, local, national and international courses. Let all the youths be busy.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .