 Central Bank of Nigeria  “There is mounting political risk ahead of the elections and domestic investors seen bargain hunt. While the Naira continues to witness stability against the dollar, volatility could be in the cards depending on the election outcome,” he noted.A fiscal governance campaigner, Eze Onyekpere, said the first likely effect of untamed election spending is that public money meant for developmental projects will likely be frittered away. “This can happen at the federal, state and local levels and this will contribute to poverty and enhancement of the misery index. “Those who spent recklessly from their private resources will most likely want to recoup same if they get access to state resources after the election, because no one is ‘Father Christmas’, even the ‘Father Christmas’ charges some money as entrance fee. Thus, corruption will be on the ascendancy. “If vote buying becomes widespread and affects the outcome of elections, then the election cannot be said to be free, fair and credible. This will foist an illegitimate government on the people and such government cannot effectively mobilise all the resources required for development, as its lack of legitimacy will haunt it throughout its tenure,” he noted.
 
Also, Abuja-based development consultant, Jide Ojo, said research has shown that reckless election spending and vote buying retards national development as it promotes political corruption. Politicians who engage in vote trading are not philanthropists. They see politics as business investment that can yield them super profit. The economy itself, is involved.
 
“After swearing in, the major preoccupation of these reckless politicians will not be to fulfill an articulated campaign promises, but to line their pockets with state funds.”“It is also important to flag the fact that vote trading is a criminal offense, under our laws, whether enforced or not. Section 124 and 130 actually criminalised voter inducement or bribery,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .