 FUTA  The project estimated at N4m, included the total overhauling of the electrical system, new fittings and tiles, provision of modern conveniences, plastering and repainting of walls and ceilings thereby making it better habitable for students. The president, Mr. Olaitan Adesomoju explained that the gesture was their little way of giving back to the institution, which molded them, to become worthy citizens. While commending members for their support, Adesomoju reiterated the need for government to be more involved in the provision of facilities to aid learning nationwide. He also assured that the association would continue to contribute its quota to the development of the institution to enable it function effectively. Former Governor Olusegun Mimiko, while inaugurating the project, advocated an investment in the intellectual resources of the nation.
Mimiko who is also an old student of the school said the greatest assets of a nation are its intellectual resources, rather than its natural resources as hitherto assumed, hence the urgent need to invest in them. He said “Every Nigerian child must have access to education, while tertiary education must be affordable for all who desire it.” The former governor also noted that the time had come for Nigerians to stop being consumers of technology and emerge as innovators. “I have followed the exploits of this institution.  You have scaled the hurdles of being the best university of technology in Nigeria and I am optimistic that you will be the best in Africa in the nearest future”. Commending the alumni on the gesture of renovation, he said, “This is a memorial to your name. This will also instill the virtue of giving back in the benefitting students”. Earlier, the vice chancellor, Prof Joseph Fuwape commended the old students for the gesture of giving back adding that FUTA alumni are pacesetters who always make the Institution proud.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .