 [FILES] Senate President Bukola Saraki PHOTO: TWITTER/ BUKOLASARAKI  He said Saraki’s loss in the election was a death knell and a precursor to the complete retirement of the Kwara born politician by his people. Oshiomhole’s remarks came yesterday after the re-elected President Muhammadu Buhati, had in a statement, appealed to his supporters not to gloat or humiliate the opposition because of the APC’s victory at the presidential election. Saraki lost to the Kwara Central Senatorial District candidate of the APC, Dr. Ibrahim Oloriegbe, in what election observers described as a major upset. The president of the Senate was one of the major casualties of the 2019 general elections. Speaking to State House Correspondents at the Presidential Villa, where he had gone to congratulate President Buhari after being issued with the certificate of return, Oshiomhole said even though the president had asked them to be magnanimous in victory, Saraki’s loss could not be ignored. “Lets also say to be honest that as much as we want to be magnanimous in victory, there are a couple of things that have happened, that show that the Nigerian people know how to reward those who are extremely arrogant. People who came to the senate with less than 100,000 votes, and began to hold the country to ransome, their own people have recalled them home. “While we were saying that we will impeach them, their people said they would rather bury them. Politically, now, they are out. It shows the power of democracy, it’s a leveler, an equalizer, you cannot be bigger than the people. “Our people say that a politician is like an okro tree, he should never grow taller than the person who planted it. And those who plant the political okro tree are the Nigerian people. I think, a couple of lessons have been learnt, this game is for those who are humble, those who believe in the people. “There are no dynasties, the people are the sovereign, when they borrow you the power, remember, it is only lend to you, and it will expire, and it will require renewal. If you don’t behave, thy will remove you.” The APC National chairman noted that the world, observers, local and foreign all agreed that there was free and fair election. He, however, said that did not mean the election was perfect. Oshiomhole commended President Buhari’s acceptance speech, saying nothing less was expected of a statesman. “Mr. President’s statement is what you expect from a statesman, that even in victory, he sowed humility and extended hand of fellowship to those who share commitment to the future of Nigeria and contested against him. But in every race, there would always be a winner. “For those analysts who have been active since 1999 in his Fourth Republic, this is the most keenly contested election. My joy is that, in the electioneering season, given all issues about security in Nigeria, there was no incident of terrorists attack except one or so in maybe Yobe or somewhere. To God be the glory. “The second is that people who had predicted that Nigerians would fight have been put to shame. I know that Nigerians believe in their country, we appreciate our friends but we also know that those friends will never accept us as citizens of their country,” Oshiomhole said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .