 [FILES] Mowe in Ogun State… one of the suburbs  The United Kingdom trained financial expert, lamented that many Nigerians are suffering from lack of better accommodation, stressing that private investors have important roles in ensuring affordable housing is available to all Nigerians. Although, housing for all is one of the policies of the present administration, its realization has remained a major task despite efforts by the Minister of Power, Works and Housing Minister, Mr. Babatunde Fashola. Speaking at the foundation laying/ground breaking ceremony of the construction of 10 units of luxury and affordable bungalow named Campagne De-Maison, in Mowe, Ofada, Ogun State, Adebajo, called on the public to take advantage of the low-cost housing, which the company is embarking upon. “Many Nigerians are still tenants because they cannot afford to own a house. Government should do more to provide cheap and affordable houses for Nigerians as well as provide enabling environment for private investors to thrive. “This is the reason UT Homes has embarked on a project of building affordable standard homes for middle and low-income earners,” Adebajo said. Adebajo further said, “the project, a fully furnished gated community, is the first phase of what we are doing and it will be sold within the community. We are targeting middle and low-income earners. We also have provision for mortgages for those who cannot pay once. There is assured security with good sewage system, constant water with excellent finishing. If we go by our projection, the first set of people will move in within the next nine months time. “So we urge Nigerians to take advantage of this opportunity and buy into this project because government cannot do it alone. It is our own little way of assisting the government. Many of the buildings are already sold out. This is a small development, we are going to do larger one. Also, the company’s Project Manager, Mr. Michael Olaiya, promised the public that they are in for the best of housing revolution, and hinted that it is on first come first serve basis. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .