 L-R: Charles Jenarius, Regional Director, Marketing Communications, Globacom;  Mark Slade, Managing Director, Sales and Business Development, Ringier Africa; Udeme Ufot,  Managing Director, SO&U Limited and Bisi Koleosho, Deputy Chief Operating Officer (Technical), Globacom, at the presentation of Globacom’s New Communications Direction in Lagos on Friday.  The products include GLO Healthcare, GLO Drive, GLO Mobile Money, GLO Entertainment, GLO Titi and GLO Connect Services.
He said: “GLO Mobile Money is an agent network for quick mobilisation of funds for utility payment. You don’t have to carry excess cash around and it’s safe. There’s no need to go to any banking platform. “GLO Healthcare is a digital health assistant that is designed to help Nigerians access best global healthcare directly from their phones. It helps to connect to over 300 specialised doctors worldwide.”He explained that GLO Drive addresses problems subscribers are facing with storing capacity in the cloud while GLO Call Connect Services allows subscribers with zero balance to notify called subscribers through SMS notification.
“It helps subscribers to stay connected always in case of low balance, out of coverage or phone switch-off,” he added.
 
Mogaji informed that GLO Entertainment offers two million local and foreign songs, access to 12,000 blockbuster movies, more than 10,000 games from top gaming developers across the globe and access to 62 channels on GLO TV. He said that GLO Titi is an artificial intelligence service that completely changes customer’s experience. He said: “It is highly interactive and engaging. It assists customers to get information about data plans, prepaid plans, postpaid plans and Value Added Services (VAS). It also helps to balance enquiry and customer care assistance.”Also, World Heavyweight Champion Anthony Joshua, who endorsed Globacom described the network as a reliable partner. Globacom’s endorsement contract with Joshua covers Nigeria and Ghana. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .