Facebook’s Jocelyn Muhutu-Remy (left), Sisi Yemmie; Comedienne Wofai Fada; Guardian Life Editor, Chidera Muoka (standing) Social media giants, Facebook, has called on publishers to leverage on creative content for better revenue generation. Facebook’s Strategic Media Partnerships Manager for Sub Sahara Africa, Jocelyn Muhutu-Remy, made the call while speaking at a session tagged ‘Art of monetising good storytelling through the social media’ hosted by The Guardian during the Social Media Week at Victoria Island, Lagos. Muhutu-Remy urged social media publishers to avoid clustering on already competitive content publishings. “Propose what is different and unique to you. It is not about the followers you have but the uniqueness of your content. I advise to start by promoting your page using your location to reduce pay.” Muhutu-Remy cited an example of a publisher on Instagram whose main contents were on natural hair care and maintenance for women and urged social media publishers to follow suit. She added that brands would only be attracted and convinced to partner and invest in a publisher whose contents is specific and specialised. Storytelling is about engaging your audience and ensuring they can relate with your content subject,” Mutuhuru-Remy said. Other speakers at the session moderated by Guardian Life editor, Chidera Muoka, were Instagram publishers, Sisi Yemmie, a food blogger and Comedian Wofai Fada. Wofai Fada, a comedian, said passion is key for any publisher that wants to thrive in the digital publishing space. “It comes easy because it’s something I love doing. Passion is necessary to push one further.” She advised publishers to be consistent and continually renew strategies to communicate with their audience. Sisi Yemmie, a food blogger, said specialisation in Instagram publishing has given her an edge in digital publishing. She urged other publishers to harness Google analytics tool to examine the interests of their audience, as well as means to grow their platforms. “Your social media analytics helps you decide what types of contents you should post and what time of the day you should post. You need to be aware of what type of content is to be promoted, but be creative and dynamic too,” Sisi Yemmie said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .