Michael Jackson’s Estate is ashing out at HBO after an announcement that “Leaving Neverland” will be broadcast on March 3 and 4. The documentary, “Leaving Neverland” makes allegations of sexual abuse by the late king of pop, Michael Jackson. The controversial documentary is predominantly accusing Jackson of sexually abusing two boys. However, in its reaction, Jackson’s estate is claiming the network is part of a grossly unfair hatchet job just to make a buck. In its letter to HBO that targets director Dan Reed, Jackson’s estate claims Reed featured two admitted perjurers – Wade Robson and James Safechuck and consciously refused to contact anyone who would discredit them. The letter goes on to make it clear that there are many people who would do just that. The letter reads in part, “The Estate spent years litigating with Robson and Safechuck and had four different lawsuits by these two men dismissed with prejudice. Today, Robson owes the Estate almost seventy thousand dollars in court costs, and Safechuck owes the Estate thousands of dollars as well.” The letter goes on to note that following Jackson’s death in 2009 death, Robson said Michael was “one of the main reasons I believe in the pure goodness of humankind.” As for why Robson changed his story, the Estate reiterated what it has said before, that he became angry when the Estate rejected him as a choreographer for the MJ-themed Cirque de Soleil. The letter says, “Robson is such a good liar that his own mother testified under oath at her deposition that she could not tell when he was lying; she even volunteered that ‘he should have had an Oscar given how convincing his lies were.'” The Estate also blasts Safechuck, scoffing at claims that his memory of abuse was triggered when he saw Robson on the “Today” show, adding, “Safechuck’s frivolous lawsuits were dismissed so early in the proceedings that significant discovery was never taken …” The Estate concludes its letter by asking HBO to reconsider, saying, “We would be happy to meet with HBO to discuss a solution. We have plenty of further information and witnesses that would expose these two for who they are.” It would be recalled that prior to his death, Jackson faced trial for alleged sexual abuse but he later settled his accusers out of court.