 The completed Niger Delta Basin Development Authority (NDBDA) new office accommodation in Port Harcourt, Rivers State  The new complex comprises of 57 offices, two halls with projector, canteen, one workshop, 24 toilets and. About 5,000-litre overhead tank with borehole will serve the building. While commissioning the facilities in Port Harcourt, the Minister for Water Resources, Suleiman Adamu expressed joy for the actualization of the project.He noted that working in a conducive environment with necessary facilities in place increases workers’ output and brings good result. The Minister expressed hope that the project would make the authority become more vibrant and commercially viable.Speaking on the upgrading of the laboratory at the NDBDA complex along Isaac Boro Park, Port Harcourt, Adamu said, the lab would help to test and monitor soil and water pollution in the Niger Delta. He noted that the region has been devastated by oil pollution but assured that the laboratory is a tool to improve water quality and health of the people in the area through consistent monitoring. The Minister said, “ Waters in this region can be polluted through underground water. It is very important that we monitor it to ensure that what the people are drinking is safe. There is a process to adhere to, to ensure that the water people drink is clean”.The Minister also noted that the facility would generate revenue adding that it is part of government’s vision to make the authority commercial viable.He charged the board and management of the authority to be transparent and accountable. Also speaking, the Managing Director, NDBDA, Mr. Tonye David-West, said the plan for the new office complex has been on the drawing board for over 20 years, expressing delight for the realisation of the project.He added that the laboratory facility would generate enormous revenue for government, adding that six rehabilitated water schemes has brought about 10,000 farmers back to business. The Managing Director said, despite all the achievements, the Authority is faced with serious challenges of poor budgetary allocation and late release of funds and appealed to the Minister to assist in addressing the challenges.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .