 Located in the North West Quadrant of the Lekki Free Zone, Alaro City lies in the growth path of Lagos  The project named Alaro City, is a mixed-income, city-scale development has a secure land title and Certificate of Occupancy. The project is a partnership between the North West Quadrant Development Company (NWQDC),  Rendeavour and Lagos State Government. NWQDC, have conceived Alaro City as a 2,000-hectare, market-led project. NWQDC is authorised by both the Federal Government of Nigeria, through the Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority, and the Lagos State Government as an entity to develop, operate, administer and manage Alaro City. It has a premium industrial, logistics, housing and leisure location, complemented by high quality commercial office complexes, homes, schools, healthcare facilities, hotels, entertainment and 150 hectares of parks and open spaces.
 
Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Rendeavour, Stephen Jennings said, the project, which commenced last week will create over 200, 000 jobs and housing schemes for all the major projects coming on board within the Lekki Free Trade Zone.
  
“Our partnership with Lagos State will ensure that Alaro City is an economically sustainable city open to all Nigerians. We already look forward to the development of Alaro City and to its 2,000 hectares, to accommodate the rapid growth of the Lekki Free Zone”, he added. These cities, he said are on more than 12,000 hectares of land, are providing homes, offices, schools, hospitals and industrial parks within well-planned urban environments, delivering new roads and utilities such as power, water and ICT, to thousands of people today, and to hundreds of thousands in the future. For the chairman of Rendeavour, Frank Mosier, the city is a new order , which will create thousands of job over the next decade. According to him, there will be thousands of new, first home owners, whose children will be educated in leading schools built on the site, while hard working people will have the opportunity to own homes, get better jobs and to start businesses, and for their children to have access to a great education right down the street 
 
Mosier said the success of the project and the resulting prosperity of this neighborhood will demonstrate to the people of the city the opportunities for them to live better lives. “But the success of this project will also send a message to investors across the world that Lagos State is a good home for direct investment.
“That the State supports global investors and that they can have a great impact. I believe this project represents a turning point for foreign direct investment and that the time is right for investment in Lagos State”, he added. Located in the North West Quadrant of the Lekki Free Zone, Alaro City lies in the growth path of Lagos, one of Africa’s fastest-growing cities with a population of over 20 million. Alaro City is adjacent to the future Epe international airport, Lagos, and close to the region’s largest deep-sea port and major Nigerian and international companies. On his part the chairman of the North West Quadrant Development Company (NWQDC), Otunba Teni Zacchaeus said Alaro City, Epe “strengthens the future of the Lekki-Epe axis as a major driver of the State’s economy which will ultimately bring significant benefit to the whole of Nigeria”. According to him “It is a unique and visionary project and without the commitment to continuity and the excellent leadership by successive Lagos State governments, notably the effective focus and direction provided by Governor Akinwunmi Ambode.
 
This has been demonstrated during this administration by the recent progress at the Seaport and Dangote’s refinery project, both developed at high speed. He appealed to the successive government to continue to promote beneficial partnerships of this nature as this will surely accelerate the growth of the economy of the state. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .