 Kolapo Olusola  The former deputy governor, who stated this in Ado Ekiti yesterday through a press statement issued by his media aide, Mr Onaopemipo Akinloye, said the people needed to end tyranny, anarchy, fascism, insecurity, hunger, economic stagnation, hunger as well as the directionless policies of the ruling APC government with their vote. Olusola urged the people to come out like Spartan soldiers and be resolute to vote for Atiku whom he said has the experience to institute a responsible and responsive government which will restructure the country and fast forward the country’s economic and political development. He urged Ekiti people not to forget the sins of the Buhari presidency against the state, such as withholding legitimate funds belonging to the state for political reasons during the immediate past PDP administration of Ayo Fayose just to starve the innocent people. He said: “Reject All Progressives Congress (APC); reject President Muhammadu Buhari and APC National Assembly candidates. This uncharitable attitude of the Buhari administration caused the Fayose administration to owe four months’ workers salary.” Olusola also accused Buhari of refusing to consider Ekiti for infrastructural development throughout his four years in power because it was a PDP-controlled state. According to him, “The state is blessed with abundant solid mineral resources. Not withstanding having an Ekiti son superintending over the mining ministry, none was ever considered for exploration. You can imagine the billions of naira earmarked to explore oil in the North. “I challenge Ekiti APC that is asking Ekiti people to vote for Buhari to cite what Buhari did for the state. Ekiti people are no fools. Ninety per cent of the infrastructure in Ekiti was put there by past PDP governors. Ekiti State has always benefited from the centre whenever PDP was in control.” Meanwhile, the grand patron of Buhari/Osinbajo Mandate Group in Lagos State, Chief Lanre Razak, has said All Progressives Congress’ presidential candidate, Buhari, deserves re-election on February 16 to enable the party consolidate on its developmental strides. He said the ongoing war on corruption, massive development of the rail system, especially the Lagos-Ibadan Standard Gauge that is nearly completed, the counter insurgency campaign, growth in the economy and the revolution in the agricultural sector were some of the major programmes of the APC-led Federal Government that would receive more attention. Razak, a former Commissioner for Public Transportation in the state and Balogun-general of Epe, in a statement in Ikeja yesterday, also commended the national leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, for the mature manner he resolved the recent face-off between Governor Akinwunmi Ambode and members of Lagos State legislature over the 2019 budget, which paved the way for the presentation of the document by the governor. “The opposition Peoples Democratic Party and some civil society organizations that wanted to make a political capital out of the impasse were disappointed at the positive turn of event as the issue was amicably addressed and all Lagosians are grateful to the APC national leader,” he said. Razak, also a member of Lagos Governor’s Advisory Council, further canvassed support for the governorship candidate of APC in the state, Mr Babatunde Sanwo-Olu, whom he noted had an unblemished career in the private and public sectors of the nation’s economy in the past three decades.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .