 Odunayo Eweniyi  Launched in 2016, as a savings product has over the years, introduced innovative products, from savings tools like Safelock, target and group savings, and PiggyFlex, to insurance products like its newly-launched TrackIt, which aids customers in becoming more effective at financial management. Speaking on the about the decision to change the brand’s name, Co-founder and CEO, Somto Ifezue, said the evolution represents the firm’s determination to ensure that their services continuously evolve with the needs of their customers.“We are building the future of savings and investments starting in Nigeria. So, we need a name that reflects that. ” The evolution according to him will allow the company to incorporate a dynamic range of new products into its offerings; to enhance customers’ accessibility to a variety of financial service solutions; and to ultimately deepen the value it provide to customers. Also speaking on, Co-Founder and Chief Operating Officer, Odunayo Eweniyi, said: “Our new identity is more than just a name change. We believe that it captures the essence of our direction as a business and our focus on the needs of our customers. Our new name is symbolic of this direction and it provides a glimpse into the exciting things the future has in store for us and our customers.” Over the years, Piggybank.ng has grown its community to over 195,000 registered individuals who currently save over N1 Billion monthly, and as stated by Joshua Chibueze, Co-founder and Chief Marketing Officer: “We are committed to providing the best for our customers when it comes to financial management, and PiggyVest is a truly comprehensive solution that will surely deliver on these promises to a broad range of users.” As part of its expansion plans, PiggyVest will be developing and including more financial features to make the platform more robust and primed to reach more users across the continent, and eventually, the world.This enhanced platform will offer even more services  including insurance and group investment options, which will be accessible to anyone, regardless of their background, all while maintaining the simplicity and convenience that has been its trademark.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .