Meghan Markle’s father, Thomas Markle, has opened up about the content of a five-page letter she sent to him after her celebrated marriage with Prince Harry in May. In the lengthy letter, she writes that her father broke her heart after speaking critically of her marriage in the papers. In an exclusive reveal with Daily Mail, he revealed the letter dated August 2018, three months after the wedding. “Daddy, it is with a heavy heart that I write this, not understanding why you have chosen to take this path, turning a blind eye to the pain you are causing. “Your actions have broken my heart into a million pieces – not simply because you have manufactured such unnecessary and unwarranted pain, but by making the choice to not tell the truth as you are puppeteered in this. Something I will never understand. “If you love me, as you tell the press you do, please stop. Please allow us to live our lives in peace. Please stop lying, please stop creating so much pain, please stop exploiting my relationship with my husband.” The 75-year-old Thomas who once called Prince Harry “arrogant” threatened, in 2018, that he will “go louder” with his criticism if Prince Harry does not “man up and get over it”. His reason to continue to speak up, he argued, is because “Meghan and Harry’s silence empowers all the crazy tweets and insults against me and my family.” Recall that despite talks with Prince Harry to stop speaking to the press, he was seen staging a paparazzi photo.
Now, he explains that this letter further deepened the rift between them, “When I opened the letter I was hoping it was the olive branch I’d longed for. I was expecting something that would be a pathway to reconciliation. Instead, it was deeply hurtful. I was so devastated I couldn’t show it to anyone and never would have had it not been for the events of last week.” He claims that his daughter’s rift with him is stressing him and denies that he has not tried reaching out to her. “I want nothing more than to sort this mess out. I would ask her and Harry to contact me. All it would take is one phone call and most of this craziness would stop.”