Meristem, foremost investment firm has launched an artificial intelligent solution, Zedd. The AI technology-driven bot interacts with users in a human-like pattern to onboard prospective investors while offering more personalized services to clients. Zedd, modelled after a 29-year-old savvy investment advisor describing himself as the investment sage upon introductions. Zedd can offer real time mutual funds rates and live stock prices. He offers guidance towards investment choices based on lifestyle and risk tolerance while guiding on-boarders through the account sign-up process. Zedd is social, he understands the dynamics of corporate wears through the week, casual wears on Fridays and traditional outfits for likely weekend ‘owambes.’ ‘Technology is meant to make us more interactive and that’s exactly what Zedd is about. With Zedd, you never have to worry how or what to invest your funds. Zedd practically guides you towards investment options that fit your fund size, risk tolerance, and duration you are willing to invest for. “We understand the hurdles towards having an investment plan; from a busy schedule to a vague understanding about the dynamics. All these have been simplified by Zedd’ These are words by Solape Akinpelu, Head Brands and Marketing, Meristem Securities Limited. A good thing about Zedd is being able to use it without being mandated to provide your account details or create a new account. As a matter of fact, there are no threats of illegal access to investment funds as Zedd never requests for your personal details.Sulaiman Adedokun, the deputy Managing Director of Meristem stated that the main objectives of Zedd is to bridge the financial literacy gap, personalize Meristem’s services as well as establish the trail blazing path of Meristem. In his words, Adedokun said: “This is another recorded first for us in the sector, an AI wealth advisor resonates more with the millennials, a generation we are proud to serve.It is even more interesting we are launching this on the heels of our Global Investment Performance Standard (GIPs) Compliance.”The next time you have questions or enquiries on starting out an investment plan, just #AskZedd by Meristem on Facebook messenger @AskZedd.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .