Muhammed Adamu (Right) The Police Service Commission (PSC) has approved the elevation of 18 Commissioners of Police (CPs) to Assistant Inspectors General of Police (AIGs), and 33 Deputy Commissioners of Police (DCPs) to CPS.But a former Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Larmode, who was recommended for the post of DIG by the new Inspector General of Police (IGP), Adamu Muhammed, was dropped because he is a junior Commissioner of Police. But he made the list of the new AIGs. The Spokesman of the PSC, Ikechukwu Ani, said: “This is one of the decisions of the fourth Plenary Meeting of the Commission held in Abuja on January 28 and 29, 2019 and presided over by its Chairman, Alhaji Musiliu Smith, a retired IGP.”The new AIGs are Maurice A. yusuf, Ibrahim A. Lamorde, Murtala Usman Mani, Wilson A. Inalegwu, Dibal Paul Yakadi, Haruna Huzi Mshelia, Mohammad A. Mustafa, Hyelashinda Kimo Musa, Adeleye Olusola Oyebade and Olusola Kamar Subair. Also elevated to AIGs are Basen Dapiya Gwana, David Oyebanji Folawiyo, Zanna Mohammed Ibrahim, Nkpa N. Inakwu, Chris Okey Ezike, Moses Ambakina Jitoboh, D.M Obembe and Wilson O. Akhiwu. The new CPs are Uche J. Anozia, Nwamhi Felix Yame, Mohammed Abdulmumini Gimba, Musa Adze, Philip Sule Maku, Umaru Haruna Miringa, Usman Sule Gomna, Adamu Usman, Daniel Sokari-Pedro, Ahmed Mohammed Azare, Adamu Saleh Jajeri, Maigana Alahi Sani, Audu Adamu Madaki and Dajuma Mohammed Lawal. Also raised to CPs are Ibrahim Sani Ka’oje, John Ogbonnaya Amadi, Ede Ayuba Ekpeji, Mohammed Bagega, Bello Makwashi, Buba Sanusi, Suleiman Balarabe, Rabiu Ladodo, Ndatsu Aliyu Mohammed, Yunusa Edwin Ogwuche, Cyril I. Okoro, Awosola Awotunde, Ayodele Andrew Olatunji, Garuba Danjuma, Bello Sani Dalijan, Imaikop Asuquo Okpongkpong and Sahabo Abubakar Yahaya. Others are Jerome E. Bentem, Idris Nagoyo, Ibrahim A. Gora and Edna Obiageri Ugbebor.“The nation looks up to the newly promoted police officers to bring their wealth of experience to bear on the security challenges facing the country, especially now that we are counting down to the 2019 general elections,” Smith said. He admonished the officers to reciprocate government’s gesture by rededicating themselves to the service of their fatherland.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .