Home Affairs Commissioner and Lagos State Amirul Hajj, Dr. Abdulhakeem Abdullateef. Lagos State Commissioner for Home Affairs, Dr Abdulhakeem Abdullateef, last Monday, said religion helped to promote peaceful co-existence in the state though religion has been manipulated in other places to perpetuate conflict. Speaking at the opening of a-day workshop themed Conflict resolution and peace building for Co-chairmen of Nigeria Inter-religious Council (NIREC) in the 57 local governments and local council development areas in Lagos State, Abdullateef stated that over the years, especially in the last three years, religion has played very significant roles in the sustenance of peaceful co-existence and harmonious relationship in Lagos State. “In this regard, I must express, on behalf of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, my gratitude for the roles that all spiritual leaders across the state have played to make Lagos a conflict-free and model of tolerance and tranquility in the country. Our Lagos is a baston of peace, safety, hope, growth and development; no wonder thousand of Nigerians from all the nooks and crannies of the Nation daily flock to the state. “Yet, evidences from other parts of the country and other climes have shown that religion can be manipulated to start and perpetrate conflicts, especially in trying, crucial or transitional period. Nigeria is in its electioneering season, and at this period, faith organisations and individual religious leaders have, more than ever before, important roles to play, to prevent conflict, bridge divides and build on the level of peace in our communities and Local Governments or Local Council Development Areas.”The commissioner pleaded with the cleric to be more proactive as that would to nip in the bud any crisis before it raises its ugly head. There were two lead speakers from the major religious groups. They both underscored the importance of peace co-existence.Reverend Julius Odofin in his paper maintained that clerics must promote peace in their domains if they want governors and local government chairmen to allocate less fund as security votes. He argued that absence of peace is responsible for the increasing security votes by state governors. He added that if there is peace, the governors would have less security votes which would allow them have access to more funds for developmental issues, reason he said they must do all to promote peace. On his part, Dr. Saheed Timeyin stated that a community without conflict is unthinkable, but the challenge is not how to eliminate it but manage it. He stated that with NIREC at the local government, the state government is deepening the culture of dialogue at the grassroots.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .