The Commissioner of Police in Lagos, CP Zubairu Muazu, on Thursday expressed the Command’s readiness for a hitch free elections in the state. The CP assured that all black spots in the state state were under serious check. Muazu told newsmen on Thursday that 30,000 men from the police and sister security agencies have been trained to provide security to all parts of the state before, during and after the elections. He said that the command would handle electoral offences according to the electoral laws, stressing that anyone arrested for committing any electoral offence would be prosecuted according to the Electoral Act. “When I became the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, I met a robust operation order to cover the election. “Our responsibility is to make sure there is a safe environment for the people to vote without any form of intimidation. “Our major role starts from the INEC office, monitoring officials as they go about their duties and security of electoral materials to and from various polling units. “We have deployed policemen and other security agencies to all polling units to ensure orderliness. There will be security at the collation centres when votes are being counted and for those that want to celebrate after the winner is announced. “Our duty also continues after the elections to provide security at election tribunals, investigate electoral offenders and prosecute as we may be needed to give evidence at election tribunal,” he said. Muazu said the police would be performing these duties in addition to the routine crime duties of the police to protect life and property. “We will leave no stone unturned as there will be normal patrols and standby units at the command headquarters to ensure no breach of peace escalates,” he said. He added that the police would give no room for clashes among rival cult groups before, during and after the elections, adding that effort was on to round up suspected cultists at Oworonsoki, Bariga and Fadeyi areas of the state. Muazu once again warned trouble makers and suspected criminals to turn a new leaf or face the wrath of the law.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .