The foremost socio-cultural union of Ndokwa people, Ndokwa Neku Union (NNU), has urged Delta Central and South Senatorial Districts to abide by the gentleman agreement on rotation scheme that has been existing in the state. Its president-general, High Chief Johnson Opone, who briefed the media in Kwale, Ndokwa West Local Government Council after a sensitization tour of the area, harped on the need for fairness and equity as it concerns the governorship slot. Opone, who is a financial expert, said, “Ndokwa nation, as part of Delta North Senatorial District, stands on the agreement that has been subsisting among the three senatorial districts.” While recalling that Chief James Onanefe Ibori and Dr. Emmanuel Eweta Uduaghan had their turns with the support of Delta North, Opone said while both Ibori and Uduaghan from North and South served out their two tenures, it is only fair that governor Ifeanyi Okowa also serves out his second term in office to ensure balance. He added: “We from Delta North Senatorial District believe that since our governor has performed and he is from Delta North Senatorial District, we will stand by that agreement, which has been performed in the two senatorial districts. Now is the turn of Delta North Senatorial District. We beg our Urhobo brothers that in 2023, we will support them, but now we call on them to support us. I hereby also call on our Itsekiri, Isoko and Ijaw brothers to give equity a chance, because what is good for them is equally good for us.” The union’s leader stated that Ndokwa Neku supports any candidate that justifies “our confidence, but when it comes to the governorship race, we stand with the agreement that we have had over the years that what is good for the Central is equally good for Delta North and we stand by our amiable governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, as the decision of Ndokwa people.” Opone said he has visited all the kings, adding that they had called for equity and fairness, saying traditional rulers of Ndokwa nation are not partisan, “but the people have spoken that they want the agreement that has not been fulfilled to be fulfilled through the election and support of Okowa in the next election.” He upbraided INEC for its under-staffed offices in Ndokwa that has made collection of PVCs by the electorate a herculean task, stressing: “This morning we were in INEC office in Kwale, and the challenge we met was that INEC is understaffed thereby making it difficult for our people. Ndokwa is ready for elections; we do not tell them who to vote for, but nothing should hinder them from exercising their right. We are on ground, going from ward to ward. As I speak we have toured all Ndokwa clans to letting them know the need for them to get their PVCs.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .