President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday sent a team to Jalingo, Taraba State, to condole with the government and people of the state over the death of eight All Progressives Congress (APC) supporters at last week’s presidential rally. The team, led by Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Gida Mustapha, included Governor of Adamawa State, Senator Mohammed Umaru Jibrilla Bindow, Senator Ali Ndume, Minister of Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Mohammed Bello, and Director-General of National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), Dr. Ali Isa Pantami. Others were Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, and a Taraban stakeholder, Yusuf A. Yusuf. At the Taraba Government House, where Governor Darius Ishaku received the team, the SGF, lamented the sad loss of eight people during and after the rally, promising that they would not die in vain. He said: “President Buhari will continue to focus on public good and welfare of the people. The eight people would then not have died in vain. “They represent the good of our people and country. They wanted good governance as symbolised by President Buhari, so they turned out to welcome him at the rally. As we go to the polls, let’s exercise the civic responsibility with zeal, but also with decency and restraint. The country is our own, and we must preserve its oneness.” Governor Ishaku expressed “sincere gratitude and thanks to Mr. President for promptly sending a delegation to condole with us,” adding that the people of Taraba were grateful for the show of concern. He prayed that the souls of the dead would rest in peace, stressing: “Peace is my mantra. I stand by it any day. I am thankful that Mr. President, who is firstly my elder brother before being my president, came to Taraba in peace, and left in peace.” At the palace of the Emir of Muri, Alhaji Abbas Tafida, the leader of the delegation condoled with the monarch and the people on behalf of the President, praying that God will give them the fortitude to bear the loss. In response, the Emir said it was President Buhari that needed to be condoled, since he lost his supporters, who loved him dearly. Promising not to forget the relations of the dead, the Emir said he would do his best to cater for them. He also urged Nigerians to emulate Buhari’s integrity and transparency. At the family home of one of the dead, where the relations of other victims had congregated, the names of the deceased were read out. Alhaji Haruna Kawuwa, who lost his wife, Safiya, at the overcrowded rally, thanked President Buhari for condoling with them at their time of sorrow. The delegation also visited the Federal Medical Centre, Jalingo, where prayers were said for the quick recovery of the injured on admission. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .