Supporters of the governorship candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC), and the Allied People’s Movement (APM) yesterday clashed in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital.The APC candidate, Dapo Abiodun’s team was allegedly attacked at Mokola junction, during his campaign tour of Abeokuta North Local Council area. It was leant that a group of political thugs, allegedly sponsored by the APM, attacked them with gunshots around the popular Adire market.
Armed policemen in the campaign team rose to the occasion by firing sporadically into the air, before bringing the situation under control. A member of the campaign team (name withheld) told journalists that a sitting federal lawmaker led the attackers. Abiodun, who spoke to journalists, condemned the attack, describing it as an act of desperation by some politicians to win the elections by “hook or crook.”He said: “When we were approaching Mokola junction in Abeokuta North Local government, we saw some group of people approaching us, we realised that they were fully armed. “Suddenly they started shooting at us. Thank God for the gallant policemen who were on ground and rose up to the occasion and chased them away.”
 He lamented that if not for the policemen, only God knows what would have happened to his supporters. “It is unfortunate that our politics has gotten to this level where it has become do or die affair. We should rather canvass for votes and endear ourselves to the people. That is the only way that we would have peaceful election.” He said. The Guardian leant that later in the day supporters of APM and that of APC regrouped and used dangerous weapons to fight themselves.This is the second time that Abiodun’s campaign team would be attacked. About two weeks ago, armed men attacked his campaign team during his tour to Odogbolu local council area. The State Police Command’s Spokesman, Abimbola Oyeyemi told The Guardian on phone: “Yes, we have heard about the attack, but we are yet to get full details. But notwithstanding, we have deployed our men to the area to keep peace.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .