 Adebayo Shittu, Minister of Communication  He said that the Federal Government and the private sector service providers, each have a critical role to play for the local content programme to succeed in Nigeria.The minister stated emphatically that the government will provide guaranteed order and policies, and ensure those orders and policies are enforced to achieve the quality of products and services as well as their commensurate patronage by Nigerians. In his words, “My Ministry is totally committed to the implementation of the local content program and the Executive Order 005 on Local Content. Let me quickly add here that, Local Content does not mean excluding foreign participation in our economy, rather, it means concerted and collaborative efforts by all players to build a strong indigenous economy” he maintained. To achieve the goals of promoting the Nigerian Local content, Shittu explained further that the “Win-Win” formula must play out so that the locally assembled computers must run on Microsoft Operating System (OS) and Intel processors.He disclosed that patronage of Nigerian Local Contents has soared higher in the current administration more than ever before, in the history of Nigeria, via the dynamic leadership of Director- General of NITDA, Dr. Ibrahim Isa Pantami. He also stated that the Ministry of Communications through NITDA will soon issue directives to encourage MDAs to use emerging technologies and other platforms and charged MDAs to comply with the new guidelines in the procurement and utilization of ICT infrastructure and services as issued by NITDA. The minister added that the Federal Government will continue to sponsor initiatives that will attract local and international investments into the country, to boost its economic growth in the technology sector.
    
In his address, the Director General, National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) Dr. Ibrahim Isa Pantami, represented by  Dr. Abdullahi Usman, said the Agency has ensured compliance and enforcement of the guidelines for Nigerian Content Development in ICT which was an issued in December 2013 and is currently being updated for more results. According to him, the guidelines together with the Executive Orders 003 and 005 issued by the Federal Government for the promotion of local content in Nigeria provide a fulcrum for the development of indigenous capacity in ICT Sector. “NITDA has ensured compliance with the guidelines through its Information Technology (IT) Clearance function where projects submitted to NITDA by MDAs, Federal Institutions, and its companies are assessed on compliance with local content as a primary criterion. Specific cases of the breach have resulted in criminal enforcement by the Agency in partnership with other law enforcement agencies in Nigeria.” He stated. In his speech at the event, the Director General, National Office for Technology Acquisition and Promotion (NOTAP) Dr. Danazumi Ibrahim,  represented by Samuel Eneanya said government policies of mandating foreign companies to train Nigerian Engineers has helped at improving the Nigerian Local Content. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .