 British Prime Minister Theresa May . / AFP PHOTO / NIKLAS HALLE’N  Some Nigerian diplomats believe International communities are unduly interfering with Nigerian politics. Vice Chancellor, Oduduwa University, Oyo State, Prof. Chibuzor Nwoke, said he doesn’t believe the world powers are interested in Nigeria. According to him, it is interference into the national affairs. He said: “The question is, could a Nigerian ambassador in the U.S. make such a blatant statement about Trump recruiting other western countries to go to Venezuela to stampede the place? They have already recognized someone who was not voted for and they tell us to practice democracy.  Any right thinking person should be interested in what happens in Nigeria, she stated.
    
Her words: “It is really not about our interest, that have to protect their borders, the humanitarian crisis alone would shake the world to its foundation, because the truth is, hypothetically, if there is a crisis in Nigeria today, and you open the West African borders, within an hour the whole of Republic of Benin, Togo, Ghana would be overwhelmed by the population. It is in the interest of the world that they take interest in what is happening in Nigeria to ensure peace and stability in the country.” An Associate professor in Nigeria Institute of International Affairs, (NIIA), Dr. Joshua Olusegun Bolarinwa, said it is intriguing when world powers show interest in our internal affairs.    
   
“From my own point of view, I believe it is as a result of self-interests in the continent and more importantly, Nigeria. Nigeria is the big brother of Africa and a strategic partner to some of the world powers such as US. So they will always be interested in the peace, stability and development in Nigeria. This I believe is one of the reasons for the interests shown by the US in the up-coming presidential election and the removal of the CJN.
 
Bolarinwa, who is also head of Division of Security and Strategic study of the NIIA, said the EU played a major role in the development and democratization of Nigeria and other African states. “It even went further in placing borrowing restrictions stating that for any African state to access development funds from the EU, they must be democratized, showing their stance on democracy. Therefore, this could be a reason for their growing interest in Nigeria affairs,” he said.
     
He explained further that Nigeria is endowed with natural and human resources and that the world powers are gaining from it and won’t want to risk a disruption.
    
In his remark, a senior lecturer of political science and public administration in Babcock University, Dr. Ngozi Nwogwugwu said: “From my understanding, I believe the Nigerian President is not only decided by the Nigerian election but by world powers and top retired military men. Therefore, I am of the opinion that the West is about to make such decisions because President Buhari has disappointed us. I think the West have chosen Atiku over Buhari as it is known, Atiku embarked on a trip to the US recently.
 
“I don’t see it as meddling, as the West owns Africa and African states are dependent on the West. They have been in existence for ages and their natural resources have been exhausted, so they use our crisis to gain access to our resources. They have multinational corporations in African states that help syphon our resources back to them. This is the reason they don’t support Biafra, as they believe they don’t stand to gain from its secession.
     
“Finally, with the action of President Buhari in the suspension of the CJN Onnoghen, they believe it is a means to an end in the forth-coming election that will not favour them,” he said.
  
A Professor of History and International Affairs, Lagos State University (LASU), Abolade Adeniji stressed that Nigeria is not a tiny country, but the largest black population in the world, with about 200million people which is prone to crisis because of its delicate nature. The international community, he said recognizes that nothing must go wrong in Nigeria.
   
“We can swamp the whole of West Africa and destabilize the continent in a short while. It is in their own interest to make sure this country doesn’t implode because by international convention, they will have to grant all of us visas because we would be refugees. And they would have the moral burden to accommodate us all,” he declared.  According to the EU, the suspension raises the question of whether due process was followed. The EU urged all parties to follow all legal processes in line with the constitution of the country.
   
“The European Union was invited by the Independent National Electoral Commission to observe the 2019 general elections.
“The EU Election Observation Mission (EU EOM) is very concerned about the process and timing of the suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Honourable Justice Walter Onnoghen, on 25 January.
   
“With 20 days until the presidential and National Assembly elections, political parties, candidates and voters must be able to have confidence in the impartiality and independence of the judicial system.   To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .