A Federal High Court in Abuja has admitted evidence from the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission showing how a former governor of Kano state Ibrahim Shekarau and two Others shared N950million bribe from former Minister of Petroleum Diezani Alison-Madueke. “Shekarau is standing trial along with Aminu Bashir Wali and Mansur Ahmed on a six-count charge of conspiracy and money laundering to the tune of N950, 000, 000 (Nine Hundred and Fifty Million Naira) only,” a statement by EFCC read. “They are alleged to have taken possession of the said sum, which was “part of an unlawful act of Diezani Alison-Madueke”, a former Minister of Petroleum Resources, for gratification purpose, in the build-up to the 2015 general election. “The statements made by the three defendants under interrogation were tendered in evidence by the prosecution led by EFCC counsel, Samuel Chime. They were admitted in evidence and marked as Exhibits A, A1, A2, B and C. The court also admitted in evidence a receipt of payment and a letter both from Fidelity Bank as Exhibits D and D1, respectively,” the statement read. Shekarau was first invited by the commission in May 2016 over this allegations which he has several times denied. But the prosecution witness, Mahmud Tukur, an operative of the EFCC, told the Court how investigations revealed that Shekarau and other defendants colluded and collected the N950 million from Fidelity Bank and distributed same among members of the oppostion party in Kano. “After concluding the investigation, it was revealed that N950 million was received by the 2nd and 3rd defendants on the 9th March 2015 at Fidelity Bank Plc Murtala Mohammed Way Branch Kano and was handed over by the 2nd and 3rd defendants to the chief detail of the 1st defendant on the consent of the 1st defendant and the N950,000,000 was transported to the house of the 1st defendant where it was distributed on the 27th of March 2015,” Tukur said. Tukur maintained that the handling of the cash for the distribution contravened the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, as it was above the threshold permitted by law. While breaking down how they trio shared the money, Tukur disclosed to the Court that the evidence was obtained from an Intelligence report that Shekarau got N25 million, while Wali received N25 million, with Mansur getting N10 million. “Having received this report, a case file was opened for the intelligence and we commenced investigation by visiting Fidelity Bank’s Muratala Mohammed Way Branch, Kano and we interviewed the Business Manager, Aliyu Dau Aliyu and the operation manager,” he said “In the course of the interview, they confirmed to us that they gave the 2nd and 3rd defendants the sum of N950 million and shortly after that, they provided us with the receipt of payment alongside the identification document of the 2nd and 3rd defendants via a letter dated 27th April, 2016,” he added. After listening to different witness account against the defendants, the court adjourned the case to April 10 and 11. The former governor is currently a Senatorial candidate under the umbrella of the ruling All Progressives Congress. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .