Behold the new Jack of all trades, Banky W. Show us a man that is good at everything he does and we will show you Bankole Wellington better known as Banky W. The business mogul who has tried his hands on engineering, music (yes, he discovered Wizkid), has investments in the film franchise in Nigeria, married to Adesua (yes, that is an achievement) and now, (*drums roll*) politics. Yes, we know that the final results have not have been collated. However, according to Banky W who is contesting for the Federal House of Representatives, Eti Osa Constituency, under the Modern Democratic Party (MDP), results showed that he was winning at different polling units including vice-president Yemi Osibanjo’s polling unit. It is noteworthy to add that his major opponent is Babajide Ibrahim Obanikoro of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Read More: Nigeria Decides: The Yoruba Vs Igbo Trend Is Not What We Need Right Now More results coming in. Young people, you may not realize it yet but the revolution has BEGUN!!!! Femi Okunnu 1 & 3: Igbokusu Unit 009 House of Rep
MDP 97 Banky
APC 73
PDP 70 Igbokusu polling unit 009A House of Rep
MDP 72 Banky
APC 47
PDP 41 — Banky Wellington (@BankyW) February 23, 2019  This information quickly went viral and many on social media assumed that congratulations were in order. So @BankyW won my polling unit, Agungi/Idado Village, code 019 for House of Reps.  Results below and attached.  APC: 76    PDP:99   MDP: 112.  Good Job, Banky!   We are all proud of you  @timidakolo @LindaEjiofor pic.twitter.com/93wB5VePUj — clemente' atakpo (@ClementAtakpo) February 23, 2019  Banky W ran in an area perfectly suited for a candidate like him. He also chose the perfect position to run for. Prestigious enough to gain attention,small enough to campaign impactfully. And he had years preselling himself.But most importantly,he worked very hard to get turnout — Babanla (@biolakazeem) February 23, 2019  Banky w ! I am proud to know you sir — Davido (@iam_Davido) February 23, 2019  Banky W suddenly has your support now?  Lol In everything you do,  believe in yourself and don't listen to naysayers… They will celebrate you with the same mouth… — Olashile Abayomi (@FireOFola) February 23, 2019  “Gorimapa Chris Brown”“Banky is a lightweight”“He is just wasting his time” I guess the results coming in so far for BankyW and how keenly contested his constituency looks because of his courage to run has now confirmed how many of you are actually mere ignorant loudmouths. — OurFavOnlineDoctor 🥳 (@DrOlufunmilayo) February 23, 2019  You see what Banky has done. Focusing on a small niche he knows he can impact and make a difference. That is what other small parties need to do and stop all this motivational talk. — Oluwaseun Adebayo (@the_adebayoseun) February 23, 2019  Failure is an orphan. Suddenly Banky W is on everyone’s lips — Dr. Dípò | The Career (@OgbeniDipo) February 23, 2019  Banky W is a leader abeg. In a few months, he was able to get party agents across his Consistency in a newly registered party with logo identification challenges. Great effort! — ‘Kayode Adegbola (@kayodea) February 23, 2019  Banky W’s win would really be a game changer for the youths who are actually interested in serving. Would be glad if he wins eventually. — Wale Adetona (@iSlimfit) February 23, 2019  Some have exercised skepticism: I hope Banky W and Akin Alabi both win, let’s see what the yute can do.. I dont know what Desmond elliot did sha. — Orji (@Onflood_) February 23, 2019  This is coming a few weeks after he was alleged to have collected N57 million to mobilise citizens to support APC. 