Lagos State police command has cracked a homosexual ring in Lekki area of the state. The leader of the gang and his accomplice, a 16-year-old boy, are undergoing interrogation at the State Command Headquarters, Ikeja. It was gathered that the kingpin, Prince Chinecherem, 32, was alleged to have been using the minor for prostitution, hiring him out to other customers. He is also alleged to have been sleeping with the teenager. The police have declared two prominent pastors and other business executives wanted for allegedly having carnal knowledge of the minor and belonging to the homosexual group. A police source said Prince would be used to round up the people involved in the nefarious activity. Parading the suspects, State Commissioner of Police, Imohimi Edgal, said on January 22, 2019, at Ejigbo area of Lagos State, a 16-year-old boy was seen sneaking out of the house of one Prince Chinecherem in a rather suspicious manner. Edgal said curious neighbours approached him to ask what he had gone to Price Chinecherem’s house to do. He added that the boy could not give a satisfactory answer to the neighbours’ probe which caused them to ask him to open up the plastic bag in his possession. Lagos State police boss said further probe into the bag revealed that it contained freshly used condoms filled with semen. “At this point, the boy revealed that Prince Chinecherem was his lover. The matter was immediately reported to the Police at Ejigbo Police State and the said Prince was arrested for interrogation. After a preliminary investigation, the matter was called for further enquiry by the Gender Section of the Command. “Both suspect and the survivor were taken for medical examination and the result revealed that the survivor has long been introduced to the homosexual act. The worst is that both of them are infected with HIV virus which causes AIDS,” he added. Edgal further disclosed that the suspects would be charged to Sexual and Special Offences Court in Ikeja and that the boy had been sent to health counsellors for health talk on how to manage the situation.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .