The 1st Battalion, Nigerian Army, Dukku Barrack, in Birnin-Kebbi, capital of Kebbi State, was thrown into sorrow and tears, as the remains of Corporal Ibrahim Attahiru, who was killed by the convoy of the state’s deputy governor last weekend was buried at the military cemetery in accordance with Islamic rites. The incident, which happened along Koko/Jega highway stop-and-search point at about 10pm last Friday also left another soldier seriously wounded. The convoy was returning to Birnin-Kebbi after a campaign trip to Zuru Emirate council in Kebbi South Senatorial District. However, Director of Research and Documentation in the office of the Deputy Governor, Aliyu Jajirma, who blamed the unfortunate incident on poor weather that night, said the wounded soldier was immediately rushed to the Federal Medical Centre for urgent attention. He added that lack of signal or light indicating security checkpoint was largely responsible for the unfortunate accident. Jajirma, who is also the Chairman, Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Kebbi State Council, also stated that the state government had sent a high level delegation to the army barracks to condoled with the family and the authorities of the deceased soldier and its participation in the burial of the diseased soldier. Efforts to get the Commanding Officer of the Battalion were unsuccessful as he was said to be in far away North-East battling the insurgents. However, a senior officer, who pleaded not to be named, said Kebbi State Government actually came to sympathise and identify with them and also participated during the burial of the late corporal and also visited the injured soldier on his hospital bed. Meanwhile, Acting Army Public Relation Officer in charge of the newly formed 8 Division, Sokoto, under which 1st Battalion falls, Major Clement Abiade, in a telephone conversation, confirmed the incident, and expressed sadness, adding that the army division was waiting for details of the incident. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .