 [FILE PHOTO] Adams Oshiomhole, APC leader  He will explain why he should not be sent to prison for disobeying the court’s order. On August 14, 2018, the court had directed the APC and Oshiomhole not to interfere or tamper with the elected Imo APC leadership led by Daniel Nwafor. On the notice served Oshiomhole, dated January 30, 2019, the court had warned Oshiomhole: “Unless you obey the direction(s) in this order, you will be guilty of contempt of court and will be liable to be committed to prison.” The court also averred that it would be in the interest of justice to resolve the matter to preserve the sanctity of the judicial process in the country. Upon the dissolution of the Nwafor-led Imo APC, Oshiomhole had constituted and inaugurated a caretaker committee led by Marcellinus Nlemigbo to pilot the affairs of the party. Meanwhile, Nwafor has cautioned against subverting his position in the state. While interacting with newsmen in his office yesterday, he warned that on no account should either the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) or security agencies impede his activities or functions as the party chairman in the state, especially during the elections. Advising INEC and security agencies to arrest and persecute any other person parading himself as the Imo APC chairman, he described such as impersonation and criminal. His solicitor, Chidozie Ogunji, in a letter addressed to the Imo Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Prof. Francis Ezeonu, on January 29, 2019 advised INEC not to recognise any other Imo APC exco aside the one led by Nwafor who he said remains the authentic chairman of the party. Ogunji, who also informed the REC of the court order recognising Nwafor as the only leader of the party in the state, therefore advised Ezeonu to respect the court judgement. “Please be informed that the order contained in the judgement has not been vacated and there is no appeal against same till date. Kindly abide by the said order as we shall be compelled to commence committal proceedings against any person violating the order,” the letter read in part.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .