 Senate President, Bukola Saraki  In a statement issued yesterday by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Yusuph Olaniyonu, Saraki emphasised the need for Nigeria’s universities to be re-opened without further delay. He stressed that the education of Nigeria’s young people is being negatively affected by government’s stance, adding that it is also disenfranchising the youths, many of whom are registered to vote in their institutions,  but were now stuck at home. Babalola expressed concern that the situation has contributed largely to instability in academic calendar, which public universities are currently facing in the country. He acknowledged that previous strikes had yielded positive results, following improved funding, infrastructure, and staff welfare, adding however, that its frequency and long duration, leading to fragrant disruption of academic activities, has continued to lower the country’s education ranking within the global circle. “It has become a case of one strike too many. ASUU strike in Nigeria has become a perennial phenomenon and inimical to our tertiary education system. It lowers our ranking at the global level,” he said. The VC spoke against the backdrop of the accreditation of nine of its programmes by the National Universities Commission (NUC). She listed the courses as Accounting, Business Administration, Biochemistry, Computer Science, Microbiology, Economics, Criminology and Security Studies, Political Science and Psychology. Babalola commended the Chancellor of the university, Mrs. Winnifred Awosika, the Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council, Emeritus Professor Bayo Adekanye, council members, Board of Trustees, principal officers, the school management, as well as staff and students for their immense contributions to the success of the exercise. She described Chrisland as an excellent institution renowned for intellectual freedom, ethical standards and moral character, research, community service and outstanding training of a new generation of leaders. The VC disclosed that the university scored 100 per cent in the accreditation exercise at its maiden edition, adding that with the development, students applying to study in the university stand a better chance of stable and focused academic activities. She explained that Chrisland varsity has state of the art infrastructure, ultra-modern hostel accommodation, learning facilities, affordable tuition, excellent student-teacher ratio in the classes as well as highly qualified academic staff who committed to teaching and research. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .