 [FILE PHOTO] Election Poll  NOA Director, Voter Education in the FCT, David Mainyan Dogo, gave the warning yesterday at the 2019 elections stakeholder meeting and sensitisation in Abuja. The NOA boss also urged the electorate to shun drug abuse before, during and after the elections, to avoid violence. “Once you collect any amount from them and vote them into power, you have sold your future and mortgaged the future of your children for the next four years. “You must also inform your children, and the youths not to be involved in taking drugs to perpetrate violence during the exercise, all of which are aimed at peaceful and successful elections,” he said. Dogo advised voters to ensure that their Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) are properly accredited before going to vote for candidate of their choice. He charged them to properly study the ballot papers before thumb printing to avoid voiding the votes. According to him, the country cannot afford to loose as much as over 3 million voided votes, as recorded in 2015. He added that the warning became necessary because the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has over 50 political parties contesting various positions in this election. INEC’s Head of Delineation and Election Management in the FCT, Terungwa Awuhe, said the commission has put a reformed Continue Accreditation Voting System (CAVS) in place to begin voting immediately after accreditation. Also, FCT Minister, Muhammad Musa Bello, who was represented by a Senior Director in the ministry, Hajia Sefia Umar, said this is the first time that NOA and the FCT are partnering to sensitise on ways to ensure peaceful elections. Meanwhile, a retired Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG), Dr. Charles Ugomuoh, has advised members of Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) not to boycott the forthcoming general elections. Ugomuoh, who is the Accord party senatorial candidate for Imo East (Owerri Zone) promised to be a strong voice in the National Assembly, if elected. The ex-police chief, who gave this advice in Owerri yesterday, said IPOB’s participation in the election would enhance the chances of electing credible leaders to facilitate their desired attention in the polity. He also expressed concerns about the deployment of heavy security apparatus, or a repeat of Operation Python Dance in the southeast, saying it would pose security challenge and disrupt elections in the area. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .