The wife of the President of Nigeria, Aishat Buhari and President Muhammadu Buhari, the reformed Democrat. Mrs Aisha Buhari, the wife of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, sure has great ways to make her mind known. In a tweet on her verified Twitter handle, Mrs Buhari tweeted a video where the president instructed security forces to be ruthless against any ballot box snatcher during Nigeria’s general elections. She captioned the video with seven thumbs up emojis and the words “#ThisIsGMB taking Nigeria to the #NextLevel”  Many replies to the tweets say the tweet by the president’s wife was crafted sarcastically, mocking the president’s death threat to vote riggers with the “This is GMB” hashtag. President Buhari in the run-up to the 2015 elections, presented himself as a reformed Democrat, excluding his military title, General, while trying to combat the militaristic impression Nigerians had of him. After winning the poll in 2015, the former acronym “GMB” meaning General Muhammadu Buhari became “PMB” President Muhammadu Buhari. Buhari’s comments at the All Progressives Congress caucus meeting have been criticised for the human right violation that could arise over possible killings. The People’s Democratic Party, the major opposition to the APC, said the death threat to ballot paper snatchers was “a direct call for Jungle Justice.” The president has recently been called a dictator and likened to the despot, General Sani Abacha. Although Mrs Buhari has gone around the nation, showing support for her husband by campaigning for his return for another four years, she may not be too disposed to his return for president. In 2016, she infamously said she will not support Buhari’s re-election bid because few people are calling the shot in this administration at the expense of Nigerians who brought him into power. “I have decided as his wife, that if things continue like this up to 2019, I will not go out and campaign again and ask any woman to vote like I did before. I will never do it again.” She also lambasted the ruling APC in the weeks after the party concluded its governorship primaries, scolding its leadership of not living up to its perceived democratic credentials. However, Mrs Buhari has extensively campaigned at packed grounds for her husband and asked women to vote for his reelection. Mrs Buhari also said in December 2018, that her husband’s government had been influenced by a cabal of two people “who will never allow things to move fast.” Mrs Buhari is truly an enigma, skidding from packed crowds screaming Sai Buhari, PMB for second term to the dimly lit streets of Twitter posting #ThisisGMB.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .