Retired boxing champ Floyd Mayweather has been very clear about his stance on the boycott of high fashion brand Gucci and has consequently received criticism for continuing to support the label in wake of its recent blackface scandal. On Thursday, T.I. released a diss track aimed at Mayweather and his pro-Gucci stance: “Damn, it must suck to be a fuck nigga/Ol’ greedy ass nigga only thinking ’bout himself,” TIP raps on the record. “They get the fame, then get the wealth/But people are struggling, who did you help?”
Hours after the track’s release, Mayweather went to Instagram to address the Gucci boycotts and to blast the celebrities who were participating. The champ accused the entertainers of being hypocritical and attempting to regain relevancy through “fake advocacy.” “In this day, celebrities and failing artist pick and choose the hottest trending topic as a means of seeking attention and using fake advocacy as their platform when their talent no longer benefit them,” he wrote. “The same celebrities stirring the pot over a brand that they, without doubt, will continually buy, are the same artists that inject rap lyrics fueled with drugs, murder, and sexual promiscuity into the very Black Communities you’re pretending to care so much about.” Mayweather goes onto to say that many of the anti-Gucci celebrities are using their art to destroy their communities. He poses the questions: Should we boycott these artists? Or should we try to come together to find a solution “to the problems we’re facing as a whole”? Mayweather also points out that he has been a longtime supporter of Dapper Dan, the Harlem rapper who went from Gucci adversary to Gucci collaborator emphasizing that he supports black owned businesses and black entrepreneurs when most celebrities with means would rather shop only from high end brands. see original post below;   These people are playing hopscotch. First, they're supposedly boycotting the NFL but as soon as the Super Bowl came around, they were either at the game, watching it on TV or throwing Super Bowl parties. Last week, it was R Kelly, this week it’s Gucci. People boycott for trend but turn around and still shop at H&M and watch the NFL. A post shared by  Floyd Mayweather (@floydmayweather) on Feb 14, 2019 at 3:56pm PST 