 Uche Secondus. Photo: Twitter/UcheSecondus  Director of Media and Publicity, Atiku/Obi PDP Presidential Campaign Council in Ekiti State, Lere Olayinka, said in a statement yesterday that Nigerians should ask leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) how a man who could no longer remember when he assumed office should continue to preside over a country of over 200 million people.The President had said in Ado-Ekiti yesterday that, “I assure you that we are conscious of the promises we made when we came into office in 2005.” Olayinka, who said he was sure those still supporting President Buhari will never pray that God should give their children his kind of brain, stressed that the only reason the cabal running the country wants him (Buhari) to remain in office was to guarantee their 2023 presidential ambition and access to the national treasury. “Nigerians must not allow the cabal to impose calamity on the country for another four years. They knew even in 2015 that President Buhari lacked both mental and physical capacity to run any business venture and that explained why he could not grow his cows from 150 for 12 years,” he stated.Elsewhere, National Chairman of the PDP, Prince Uche Secondus said that President Buhari was tired, weak and could not go further and therefore, should surrender power. He said the propaganda could not work for the APC, as the party could no longer deceive Nigerians. Addressing PDP members in Bauchi, Secondus said: “Nothing can help him (Buhari) because he cannot interface, interact or engage. We believe that Atiku Abubakar can engage anybody in Nigeria.” Addressing supporters at the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa Stadium in Bauchi yesterday, Atiku regretted supporting APC in the 2015 general elections. “Three years have passed, what has APC done for you except hunger, poverty and lies? Also, Speaker, House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara enjoined the electorate to vote Atiku to stop the lingering poverty in the Northeast, saying if truly Nigeria was the capital of poverty, the Northeast was its stronghold.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .