 [FILE PHOTO] Founder, Phillips Consulting, Mr. Foluso Phillips  Being the US company’s first entry into the African market, HCG courses highlight the best, up-to-date and most relevant training courses essential to all professionals and companies to meet expected goals and outcomes. Using science, analytics and empathy, HCG will complement Phillips Consulting’s effort to drive growth and excellence in Nigerian organisations. The partnership will provide evidence-based HR and talent management certifications to the Nigerian market. Senior Partner in charge of Phillips Consulting People Transformation practice, Paul Ayim, said “It is time, for HR to raise the bar beyond HR operations and change the conversation to more strategic business-aligned issues that impact business performance.” While HCG’s founder-CEO, Dr. Shreya Sarkar-Barney, explained, “human resource and talent management professionals are increasingly called upon to align the workforce with business needs and deliver measurable improvements. Our science-based courses and certifications can be readily put to use to deliver results.” In concrete terms, this partnership ensures that existing and aspiring HR professionals have the opportunity to nurture skills and pursue certifications in focus areas such as workforce analytics, change management, leadership development, and integrated talent management amongst others. What differentiates HCG certifications from current certifications available in the Nigerian market is that they are hands-on, project-based and backed by deep industry and academic expertise. Rather than focus solely on the administrative and legal aspects of HR practice, these certifications will equip HR professionals with the tools, resources and expertise to make instant and tangible business impact. These certifications cover the following specializations: Talent Management Practitioner, Talent Management Specialist, Workforce Staffing, Workforce Development, Workforce Management, Organizational Effectiveness, Talent Acquisition, Leadership Development, Workforce Planning, Change Management, Workforce Analytics, and Employee Engagement. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .