All over the world, every February 14this characterized by the exchange of flowers, candy, gifts and cakes between loved ones; this is done to commemorate St Valentine’s day; the month is celebrated as a period of romance. The day which celebrates love, sacrifice and devotion was named after the Catholic priest who paid the ultimate sacrifice to join lovers. In modern times owing to the global acceptance of French cuisines and desserts, cakes are made and offered on Valentine day- a day when happiness, friendship, love and bond is being celebrated or forged. In Nigeria, this celebration holds a significant place in the heart of lovers and would-be lovers. Dressing in predominantly white and red attires, lovers spend time together and exchange gifts and cakes- mostly love shaped. With the popularity of the celebration, cakes are now given out in various shapes to enrich an existing affair or better still trigger it in the case of a non-existing one.  White Chocolate And Raspberry Cheesecake. Photo Credit: Cook Diary  During this period, we have more demand for cakes from our customers for their lovers. In recent times, Valentine cakes have been known to enrich relationships; these specially themed cakes enable lovers to develop emotionally, socially and mentally. when carefully crafted, these unique cakes bring joy and happiness to lovers. “Sugar art comes in various forms and shapes. In sugar artistry we primarily focus on creating edible arts through the use of portions of sugar paste such as gum paste or fondant and manipulating them into sculptures, flowers and plants in a way that delights our clients; and this goes a long way in making our customers happy and more romantic- enabling them to honour their love for each other.” Cakes which came into being in the medieval times has risen to prominence in the hierarchy of foods that during Valentine day and weddings. This was recently displayed during the wedding between American actress, Meaghan Markle and Prince Harry of England, which was celebrated with an iconic cake. Cakes are a form of sweet desserts that are typically baked. cakes came as a result of modifications on bread. Cakes can be made simple or elaborate as the occasion demands. Although sharing features with pastries, pies and meringues, cakes are unique; they are quintessentially made up of flour, sugar, eggs, margarine and baking powder, which serves as leavening agent. It is served as a celebratory dish at key functions such as birthdays, anniversaries and weddings. According to legend, Valentine was a priest who served during the third century in Rome. When Emperor Claudius II decided that single men made better soldiers than those with wives and families, he outlawed marriage for young men. Valentine, realizing the injustice of the decree, defied Claudius and continued to perform marriages for young lovers in secret. When Valentine’s actions were discovered, Claudius ordered that he be put to death.