 Most Rev. Nicholas Okoh, Primate of all Nigeria (Anglican Communion)  The archbishop, who spoke at the weekend while inaugurating an ultra-modern bishop house, chapel and commemorating the 60th birthday of the bishop of Egbu diocese in Owerri North Local Council of Imo State, Geoffrey Okorafor, noted that Nigeria could only move forward when the citizens actively participated in the process leading to the choice of rightful leaders. His words: “You must take these elections seriously. They are very important. They will affect you, your children, grand children and great grand children. It is not funny at all. The polls are very important. Do not joke with them. We want successful and credible (elections) in 2019. May our country move forward in the mighty name of Jesus.” He beseeched stakeholders to prioritise the exercise. Okoh lauded the promoters of the church projects, reminding them that God had recognised their efforts and would reward them appropriately. The cleric submitted: “Those who have denied themselves and brought the money for these, God will reward them.” He urged the laity to comport themselves decently. Citing 2 Cor 2: 16- 17, the head of the Anglican Church nationwide, said: “Conduct yourselves in a way that would not bring calamity to the church. But let it bring blessing so that your family will continue to grow. Let no man bring crisis to the church.” He commended Okorafor and his family on the attainment of a diamond milestone. The event was graced by the archbishop of Owerri ecclesiastic province, Caleb Maduoma, bishops, former deputy speaker of the House of Representatives/Imo Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship standard-bearer, Emeka Ihedioha, immediate past governor of the state/Accord Party guber candidate, Ikedi Ohakim, two-term member of the state house of assembly, Oliver Enwerenem, erstwhile chief judge/chancellor of the diocese, Benjamin Njemanze, and other dignitaries. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .