 YPP Presidential candidate Kingsley Moghalu at a recent campaign  Presidential candidate of Young Progressives Party (YPP), Prof. Kingsley Moghalu, has counseled Igbo to liberate themselves from playing the position of vice president in Nigerian politis.He spoke at Aba, Abia State during a rally targeted at Ariaria Market Traders, where he took his campaign yesterday. Moghalu urged the Igbo not to accept that it is not their turn to lead this country, adding that Igbo are better equipped to lead Nigeria, even though election is a contest where the winner is decided and chosen by God. The YPP candidate promised that if elected, his government would increase government spending on science, technology and innovation, and utilise them as strategic national priorities.He added that he would encourage effective youth participation in the democratic process to encourage regenerative and intergenerational leadership.He promised to “protect the nation’s intellectual property to motivate and reward innovation, effect a constitutional restructuring of Nigeria, along geopolitical lines. “This is an arrangement that ensures that the federating units own the natural resources found within them.”Moghalu added that while regional and state police would be in place to provide more effective national security, his administration would invest in the creativity of the Nigerian youth by prioritising the National Policy of 2009. This, he, said is with particular emphasis on literacy and encouragement of youths participation in democratic processes at all levels.The YPP candidate said he grew up in Aba, hence to took his campaign to the market to address “my people,” and lamented that he was denied entry into the market.He described Aba as an industrial power that he must fix appropriately to allow it to take the first position in the comity of industrialised nations. “This is a desperate and undemocratic act. I am pained by this, despite that I was a full-fledged Aba boy. I lived and schooled in Aba in the 70s. We are in a democracy and ought not be living in bondage,” he said.In his campaign team were the YPP candidates for Aba North State House of Assembly, Chiagozielam Ihuka, Ikwuano/Umuahia Federal Constituency, Mike Obi-Okezie, the gubernatorial candidate, Joseph Nkoro and his running mate, Udo Okpere. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .