 [FILE PHOTO] National Leader of All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu (left); APC Lagos Chairman, Tunde Balogun and Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, during a stakeholders’ meeting at the party’s secretariat in Lagos.  Tinubu gave the assurance yesterday at a meeting of Governor’s Advisory Committee (GAC) held to resolve the perceived conflict between Governor Ambode and the state House of Assembly under the leadership of Mudashiru Obasa. He urged the legislative and executive arm of government to shelve their grievance and move the state forward. Tinubu asked for effective communication, consensus building and understanding, noting: “all these are inbuilt in the democratic system.” He said: “There has been some talk about a conflict between the Executive and the Legislature. This is of great concern to us. We looked at the source of the conflict, which is normal in a democracy, and that is why there are also conflict-resolution mechanisms. “We examined the grievances on both sides. As leaders, we also looked into areas where there has to be compromise. In order to build institutions and encourage consensus-building, we have to do what is right.” Read More: Tinubu calls end to Ambode impeachment talk Also speaking at the meeting, a leader in the party, Prince Tajudeen Olusi, added that the two arm of government must resolve their grievances. According to him, “The APC leader has spoken. This is just to further confirm the decisions that we reached. Conflict is an institutional part of the governance. The executive and legislature must work together. “We have reached a decision that they must work together amicably. And very soon, both the legislature and the executive must resolve the grey areas in their relationship.” Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, his deputy, Dr. Idiat Adebule, House of Assembly Speaker of the House, Mudashiru Obasa, and his Deputy, Wasiu Esinlokun, also attended the meeting. It was also resolved at the meeting that Governor Ambode should lead his team to present the 2019 budget before the Assembly tomorrow. Other compromises reached include a commitment from Ambode to collaborate with the leaders to support the standard-bearer of the party, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu in the coming governorship election. The lingering face off between the legislature and the executive, which culminated into the lawmakers issuing an ultimatum to Ambode last week, to appear before it or face impeachment, necessitated the GAC meeting. The Assembly had accused the governor of alleged gross misconduct and spending budget that had not been laid before, or approved by it. The situation had attracted sharp criticisms from the public and among the opposition parties. Meanwhile, Agbaje has faulted the policy of the ruling party on education; he would restore the rots in government owned schools by increasing budgetary allocation to the sector, if elected next month. He said it was unimaginable that Lagos could lose the goggle offer to Ghana, which he blamed on the lackadaisical approach of the APC’s-led government to education in the last 20 years. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .