Nigeria’s biggest blogger, Linda Ikeji, is in the news again for the wrong reasons. The reason? A rape story on her blog got deleted. Now here is the thing, Linda Ikeji blog is known to the Nigerian public as a blog which defies sympathy when it publishes a story. In a trending story about a 23-year-old rape victim who got her alleged rapists Razak Oluwaseun Oke 28, and Don-Chima George, 25 arrested, Nigerians celebrated that justice was finally been served in a rape case. According to reports, they drugged, raped and recorded the assault. Read More: De Lankaster Hotel Where Rape Occurred In Lagos Drops In Ratings A story which was confirmed by Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Chike Oti. However, she took down the story after it was alleged that the father of one of the alleged rapists who is also the owner of De Lankaster Hotel where the incident took place, got the brother of the victim arrested, an incident that has never happened in the blog’s history. Now, Nigerians are alleging that Linda Ikeji was paid handsomely to take down the story but put it up after the backlash she got: Linda Ikeji deleted and posted it again today.
Is today not 7th? Did the matter happen today? Did she not post it when it happened? Where is the old post?
Lmao pic.twitter.com/3qVYyMv8qK — S. (@BadmanSophss) February 7, 2019  The loudest Nigerian female voice on social media with the biggest platform has just helped to suppress a rape story and delete the story off her blog. Linda Ikeji proves repeatedly that she’s an opportunist and a faux woman rights activist whose conscience can be bought. Shame. — OurFavOnlineDoctor 🥳 (@DrOlufunmilayo) February 7, 2019  So Linda Ikeji took down the story, a rape story… I really want to know how much they paid Linda Ikeji to take down that post. How much does her conscience and empathy cost? — Tosin Olugbenga (@TosinOlugbenga) February 7, 2019  Linda Ikeji removed the story and the rapist’s father went to arrest the brother of the girl his son raped.
Friendly reminder that some parents actually enable their rapist children. — S. (@BadmanSophss) February 7, 2019  It should be recalled that there have been several occasions where Nigerian citizens have pleaded with her to take down a story because of its implications. In this regard, she informed the public in 2018 of a suicide case involving a Nigerian gay man and listed his secondary school so that his classmates would identify him. In another instance, a mother of a deceased found out about her child’s death on her blog despite calls to take it down. Linda Ikeji dat doesn’t take down posts took down post of rapists! Lmao. When I say she’s trash some idiots will come with “she has money”! Continue, dat’s why u people have d leaders u do. — Toksman (@ogbuefitoks) February 7, 2019  Linda Ikeji took down this rape story. Maybe the report was false. But some people are claiming that she was paid to take it down. I doubt that she collected any money to take down the story. #Nigeriatunes #LindaIkeji pic.twitter.com/x0mW195ZeK — Nigeriatunes HD (@NigeriatunesHd) February 7, 2019 