 The police chiefs with the Osolo of Isolo, Oba Kabiru Agbabiaka (second right) and Eze Ndigbo of Lagos, Eze Christian Nwachukwu  Zubairu while speaking at the palace of the Osolo of Isolo on Monday evening said what happened on Saturday was a matter of concern for everybody, including the security agencies. According to him, everybody was aware of the issues in the area but not aware of the true facts. He said he was in the area on Saturday with the AIG. “They said three persons were killed but nobody had seen one body anywhere in this area. The gentleman who was attacked was immediately rescued, rushed to the hospital and he is getting better in the hospital. But you can see the negative news being spread about this area, which is not good for everybody.“This is why the AIG and myself have come here to re-emphasise the peaceful co-existence, which I believe has been happening in this kingdom for so many years. This kingdom is not known for any violence or crisis. It is known for living together in peace; why is this area trying to get a new name now?” He urged the leaders to allow people vote candidates of their choice. “Party A or B doesn’t matter because that is what is bringing the problem. That it must be a particular party must be erased from our minds. Let us focus on good leadership. Nobody must be compelled to choose a party or candidate of any party.” Eze Nwachukwu said the meeting with the monarch was necessary. According to him, there was a disagreement and the Igbo, Hausa and Yoruba communities were ready to sort it out and agree among themselves that if such should happen, they should report to the police or the oba.“We have agreed that everyone should go home and talk to their people so that peace can reign. We have talked about peace for the Igbo, Hausa and Yoruba communities. We have agreed to be meeting from time to time to discuss our common problem for the interest of everyone.” Oba Agbabiaka urged the Igbo leaders to always report any issues or disagreements to the police if they cannot come to him. “Anytime you have any problem or any grudge with any people, you should please if you cannot come to me, call the police. You cannot take the laws into your hand or give judgment by yourself. “Ndigbo, you see sometimes, it is good to show signs of appreciation. Majority of you know me, either you had your property through us or through the government. All you should know is that you are within Isolo and there is nothing that I do that I don’t carry you along. And that is what brought the idea of giving about four or five of you chieftaincy titles. “Also, the government means well for you. In the last election, the House of Representatives winner in this area is your man, an Igbo, and the House of Assembly representative is also your man, two councillors are from you and also one supervising councillor.” Meanwhile, members of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State have refuted claims that their party members were involved in the mayhem and attack on traders at Oshodi market and its environs on Monday. While speaking with The Guardian, a lawmaker representing Oshodi/Isolo Constituency 1 at the Lagos State House of Assembly, Olusola Sokunle, hinted that APC was not involved in the incident. He alleged that there was no truth in the claims by a member of the Peoples Democratic Party, Mutiu Shodimu that the Treasurer of National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) in the state and chieftain of the APC, Alhaji Musiliu Akinsanya, aka, M.C. Oluomo was terrorizing the traders for not voting APC in the just concluded elections. Sokunle maintained that the claims were aimed at causing ethnic clash among the people, adding that such must be forestalled.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .