United Bank for Africa United Bank for Africa (UBA) has deepened its commitment to Artificial Intelligence (AI) through the creation of Leo. Leo is a banking chatbot that helps customers carry out key transactions anywhere, using mobile devices and personal computers. Austin Abolusoro, bank’s Head, Online Banking, said Leo can now be accessed via Facebook or WhatsApp, adding that “We are leading financial industry AI in Africa. Over a million customers are already on the LEO platform. Before now, customers can only come to the bank, but today we are on social media and the launch of LEO has helped customer to get their complaints resolved without physically visiting the bank. Leo makes of available data to resolve complaints and where more information is needed, Leo will transfer the customer to human agents,”. Continuing, he said: “Our customers are increasingly asking for mobile services that make their lives easier, and Leo is becoming a growing choice for his convenience and personal solutions,” he said. Leo combines the latest technology in AI; predictive analytics and natural language, to be a virtual financial assistant to customers, who can interact with it any way they choose, including texting or tapping options on their screen. Leo has proven to be an important financial assistant, helping users to search for transactions, view account history and balance, pay bills, as well as track spending trends. Leo is also developing interest in other aspects of users’ lives and currently helps them to check football scores and weather information. Leo will continue to learn and become more involved in the lives of users to better meet their needs and address their queries. “As we continue to advance our work on AI-driven developments, it is important that we listen to our users today and further enhance Leo to align to client feedback in order to better meet and anticipate needs and even give them increased value as Leo clocks one,” Abolusoro added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .