 [FILE PHOTO] Is’haq Modibo Kawu, director general, National Broadcasting Commission/Twitter/ modibbo_kawu  Speaking at a two-day workshop on political broadcast in Lagos yesterday, he said being professionals would ensure the consolidation of democracy, adding that the role of the media is central to the success of democracy.  According to him, the broadcaster is always on trial, hence stations should engage veterans to assist in training and mentoring the upcoming ones to prevent experiential gap. The theme of the forum was: “The media coverage of 2015 elections, challenges, regulatory framework and the way forward for a credible 2019 elections.”In a communiqué after the workshop, participants agreed that there is a strong need for regulation, noting that NBC must engage station owners to allow broadcasters carry out their roles professionally. The stakeholders advised that all stories must be facts-checked before going to press, while Advertising Standards Panel must vet political adverts. Former NBC Director General, Danladi Bako, advocated ethical reorientation towards ensuring that election results are verified before going to press. Meanwhile, a factional chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State, Mr. Foud Oki, has urged his supporters to reject the party’s candidate, Babajide Sanwo-Olu in the governorship election.He made the call yesterday during the APC door-to-door and town hall meetings in Egbeda, Ikeja, Agege and Alimosho areas, while in another forum, Sanwo-Olu canvassed voters support, while urging Nigerians to increase investments and savings to drive financial inclusion, rather than consuming to drive financial inclusion. Oki asked the people to vote for only President Muhammadu Buhari, but  shun other APC candidates, even as he dismissed the resolution of the GAC on the moves to impeach Ambode, saying, the development would not resolve anything. “We will vote for Buhari, but other candidates on the platform of the party were imposed on the people. This must stop, as Lagos must cease to be the personal political estate of one individual. “President Buhari has freed the aggrieved members to vote their conscience in the elections. Since there are still aggrieved people within the party following last year’s party primaries, it would be wrong to force anybody to vote for people who are not theirs,” he said. Speaking on ‘Making financial inclusion a reality for all’ at the Social Media Week (SMW), Sanwo Olu said only savings and investment could strengthen the value chain and further boost the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP).Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Technical Adviser, DFS, Financial Inclusion Secretariat, Nurudeen Abubakar, and Director, Lagos Business School (LBS), Olayinka David-West, identified necessary parameters to actualize the drive. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .