 Enugu. PHOTO: Enugu State Government  The Guardian learnt at the Enugu branch of the Central Bank of Nigerian (CBN) that sensitive and non-sensitive materials were being moved to their locations when it was discovered that some of the items meant for wards in Udi, Awgu, Oji River, Aninri and Oduma were missing. A breakdown showed that Form 8C for central collation for Udi and Awgu wards, result sheets for 12 wards in Oji River, 11 wards in Aninri and two wards in Oduma were not found. However, what could have led to a free for all was averted by the state’s Resident Electoral Commissioners (REC), Dr. Emeka Ononamadu, following attempt by CBN security officials of CBN to prevent members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) from accessing where materials were being moved to their voting centres. It took the intervention of the REC for the branch Controller to order his security men out of the gate and for APC officials to be allowed into the premises. But Ononamadu said the commission was making efforts to trace and recover the missing result sheets, adding however, that the ones for Udi had been found and were being returned to the state. The state APC has, however, raised an alarm over the discovery, saying it could affect the outcome of the elections if not addressed. State Chairman of the party, Dr. Ben Nwoye, told journalists that the party was worried “because in an election like this, every result counts.” Commending INEC for its effort, especially in allowing party officials access to the venue of distribution of sensitive materials, he stated that there was the need to immediately address the loophole to give credibility to the process. Also, members of the DOT3 Health and Fitness Centre yesterday marched round the streets of Enugu to campaign for peace and sensitise the electorate on the need to vote in the general elections beginning from Saturday. Managing Director of the Fitness Centre, Egbo Obinna, who led the exercise, said sensitization programme was borne out of the need to ensure that the country remains peaceful before, during and after the elections. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .