Sensational pop music star, Taylor Swift is the cover star of the April issue of Elle UK, which is set to hit the stands on March 7. The “Reputation” crooner wrote a personal essay detailing the sadder aspects of life: ‘bad breakups’ and ‘let downs’ for the magazine. The 29-year-old, “Look What You Made Me Do” hitmaker sold the image of “Pop’s New Power,” as the font read underneath her designer gown. The title was actually a reference to the power that pop music holds, which Swift so articulately expressed in her Power of Pop essay she wrote for the fashion magazine. In the personal essay, Swift explained how “music can transport you back to a long-forgotten memory,” including breakups — a painful memory that’s sometimes necessary to revisit. In her opinion, “I’m convinced that ‘You Learn’ by Alanis Morissette, ‘Put Your Records On’ by Corinne Bailey Rae and ‘Why’ by Annie Lennox have actually healed my heart after bad breakups or let downs,” The pop star who is famous for many heartbreak songs detailing her past relationships is currently dating British actor, Joe Alwyn. However, before Alwyn, Swift has had her fair share of breakups as she has dated the following men (or at least was rumored to), in this order: Joe Jonas (2008), Lucas Till (2009), Taylor Lautner (2009), John Mayer (2009-2010), Cory Monteith (2010), Jake Gyllenhaal (2010-2011), Conor Kennedy (2012), Harry Styles (2012-2013), Calvin Harris (2015-2016), and Tom Hiddleston (2016). Speaking about how she has captured the memories from her past romances, she wrote, “I love writing songs because I love preserving memories…I like to be able to remember the extremely good and extremely bad times.” On pop music’s global impact, Swift wrote, “I think these days, people are reaching out for connection and comfort in the music they listen to. We like being confided in and hearing someone say, ‘this is what I went through’ as proof to us that we can get through our own struggles. We actually do NOT want our pop music to be generic. I think a lot of music lovers want some biographical glimpse into the world of our narrator, a hole in the emotional walls people put up around themselves to survive.” Swift further went on to explain how listening to a stranger’s song can help us “heal”, “This glimpse into the artist’s story invites us to connect it to our own, and in the best case scenario, allows us the ability to assign that song to our memories. It’s this alliance between a song and our memories of the times it helped us heal, or made us cry, dance, or escape that truly stands the test of time. Just like a great book.” It would be recalled that fans currently believe Swift is working on her seventh album as she was seen leaving a recording studio in New York City on January 17.