Some cast members of Bling Lagosians taking slefie with the Shara Energy team at the private screening of the movie Few weeks after the world premiere of Bolanle Austine-Peters’ latest movie project, Bling Lagosians, leading energy conglomerate, Sahara Group, last Saturday, hosted staff members and friends to a private screening of the movie. Held at the Terra Kulture, Victoria Island, Lagos, the evening provided opportunity for staff of the company and friends of the organsation to see the movie, which is currently show at the cinemas. Bling Lagosains tells the story of the Holloways, who are one of Lagos’ most prestigious families. They holiday in Europe, dress like royalty, hobnob with the political class and own the city’s most luxurious high-rise, St. Ives Towers. Their family name is a synonym for class and poise. When Mopelola Holloway, the sophisticated matriarch of the family, announces that she’s throwing a flamboyant party for her fifty-first birthday – to top the headline-making shindig she threw the year before for her fiftieth – she unwittingly sets a series of events into motion that will have repercussions far from pleasant for the Holloway household. Akin Holloway, her suave husband, secretly battles to stop banks from foreclosing on St. Ives Towers, which owes billions in unpaid debts. Losing the firm would ruin Akin and his family’s standing in Lagos and soil the legacy established by his father who bequeathed the mighty firm to him. Meanwhile, Demidun Tade-Smith, the oldest daughter of Mopelola and Akin Holloway and wife to George, a gorgeous pilot, is a highly demanded business consultant. She’s renowned for teaching business strategy using the concept of marriage. Her marriage, however, is poor inspiration for her work as she discovers her husband is seeing another woman and will stop at nothing to end the affair. Nnamdi, an Asaba-filmmaker, hires Tokunboh Holloway, screenwriter and the younger scion of the Holloway clan to develop a movie concept for his theatrical debut. Her pitch will either secure funding from Nnamdi’s investors or turn them away, but Tokunboh’s greatest obstacle is Nnamdi who rejects her ideas for the very ones he’s trying to distance himself from. As each member of the Holloway family work to solve their problems, they prepare for Mopelola’s party, clearly to become the year’s biggest society event. But the buzz about the party compels the banks to issue Akin an impossible ultimatum to settle his debts. He must then fight a bigger battle – getting Mopelola to cancel her party, which appears to be the only bright spot in the troubled lives of the Holloways. Speaking at the private screening, Bethel Obioma, Head, Corporate Communications, Sahara Group said the organisation recognises the role of the arts in shaping positive narratives and galvanising action towards positive change. He therefore reaffirmed the company’s continuous support for the arts as a vehicle for promoting sustainable development across the globe. “At Sshara Group we believe in the transforming power of the written word, photography, music, drama and other forms of art and our commitment has remained unwavering through various interventions and partnerships,” he said. He added: “Our involvement with the arts enables Sahara to keep spearheading a gold standard for corporate citizenship as the world continues to work towards achieving the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .