 Orji Uzor Kalu  Kalu told journalists at the weekend that for 10 years, the Igbo voting pattern had brought them more deprivation until now.He said: “President Muhammadu Buhari, who they did not vote for, is building the Niger Bridge and doing the Port Harcourt-Abah-Umuahia-Enugu Expressway and Enugu-Awka-Onitsha Expressway. “Those that our people voted for genuinely for 10 years did not touch those things that Buhari has tried to do now. I am not talking in terms of appointment because the constitution says that every state should have at least one minister. That is statutory. It is good to also spread the service chiefs, which I will like people in the Senate to bring a bill on. “But when you look at it, service chiefs are like the personal staff of the President, they are not really constitutionally owned because you only work with military men you trust.”  Kalu, who stated that those they appoint might not be the best but that is the trend because everybody wants to be in control of his security. “So, this is why I see people shout they are marginalized. For marginalization, yes, I cannot lie or look at anybody’s face; but again, our people are not better politicians because you have to flow like any other region.”Meanwhile, the United Patriots (UP) Acting National Chairman, Chukwudi Ezeobika, has described the motion by Senator Ifeanyi Uba on the floor of the Senate last Wednesday “on unfair competition in the aviation industry” as a misplacement of priority. Ezeobika, in a statement in Abuja yesterday, alleged that while the entire South East region is inordinately, intolerably and inexcusably marginalized, Uba is devoting so much energy on things that least matter to the people. He said he was not surprised at Uba’s line of thought as it is a well-established fact that no one gives what he does not have. This, he said, is the reason why competent and knowledgeable individuals who understand the whole essence of governance and effective representation should be elected to represent their interest in government. Besides, he said the representatives of the people should be able to feel their pulse by doing justice to their aspirations. But when contacted for his reaction, Uba said he would react at an appropriate time.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .