 Adams Oshiomhole, APC leader  State Chairman of the party, Dan Orbih, said Obaseki’s decision has vindicated the alleged scam in the hospital project since 2012, for which it earlier raised an alarm to sensitise the government and members of the public on its reservations. Orbih, who expressed satisfaction with the recent declaration of intention by the Governor Obaseki administration’s resolve to probe the contract of the hospital, said all those connected with the award, poor execution and commissioning of the project must account for their roles in the interest of Edo people. “Politically, we don’t want our reactions to be misunderstood as taking sides in the fight between the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Chairman, Oshiomhole and Obaseki,” he said.He noted that it has become imperative to restate the party’s position due to overriding public interest and resolve to expose the deceit of the past and present APC government in the state. Orbih said the timing of government’s admission of fraud in the award and execution of the contract may look politically motivated, because of disagreements between Oshiomhole and Obaseki. He, however, added that the issues raised by Governor Obaseki could not be ignored, as government must resist pressure to resolve current political disagreements over the hospital contract scam. “Without sounding immodest, Edo PDP as far back as 2012 condemned the inflated award of the contract for the 200-bed Accident and Emergency Ward complex. We condemned the shoddy construction and deceptive commissioning of the project by President Muhammadu Buhari,” he added. Special Adviser to Governor Obaseki on Media and Communication Strategy, Crusoe Osagie had said the state government would investigate allegations of fraud and irregularities with the contract for procurement of the hospital’s equipment.Meanwhile, Obaseki yesterday dared politicians who now operate from Abuja, to come and take over activities at the Edo State House of Assembly. He stated this during a solidarity rally in Benin where various interest groups including teachers, market women, pensioners, youths and religious leaders pledged their unflinching support for his government. Obaseki said it was regrettable that some politicians who had joined in the struggle to entrench a people’s democracy in Edo state now seek to work against the people. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .