 [FILE PHOTO] PDP chief, Uche Secondus  Alfa, who is also an aspirant for the chairmanship in the forthcoming PDP congress, warned against the use of undemocratic processes to conduct the congresses slated for today, July 11 and 19, 2019, stressing that the party should take advantage of the crisis within the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) by organising inclusive congresses. While addressing a press conference yesterday at Apo Apartments, Ahmadu Bello Way, Abuja, Alfa noted that since Kogi people have become disenchanted with the ruling APC due to bad governance, it behooves PDP to justify its ranking as the toast of the electorate not to abuse the good chance to return to Lugard House. Fidelis expressed dismay at recent developments in the party, regretting that “PDP is about adopting an unpopular and undemocratic procedure to bring about an unpopular leadership for the party in the state.” He said should the party go ahead with the unpopular decision it might likely affect its chances in the quest to recover the lost glory of Kogi State and dislodge APC government. He warned that although the current administration has been considered the worst in the history of Kogi State, PDP’s golden opportunity to reclaim the state might be jeopadised. While insisting that it would take a new PDP leadership at the state level to actualise the recovery of the state’s lost glory, Fidelis declared: “It is against that background that I present myself leaving all my private businesses to join other progressive-minded Kogites to rescue Kogi State. “It is also important to note that PDP’s constitutional procedure stipulates that there shall be state congresses to elect the state executives of the party.” He reiterated that the current proposal for affirmative congresses in the state with the intent to return the state PDP chairman is an aberration and urged the party to allow internal democracy and inclusiveness within the party, especially now that it is in opposition. He accused the incumbent chairman of having failed to hold any meeting with party stakeholders in Kogi Central Senatorial District, where he comes from due to his romance with the ruling APC, alleging also that the chairman gave his daughter out in marriage to one of APC’s stalwart in the current APC government in Kogi State. Noting that the chairman’s son-in-law was compensated with an automatic ticket of APC in the House of Representatives in the 9th Assembly, Fidelis stated: “In addition, the current PDP state chairman is known to be the chairman of Igbira Elders Forum, which is agitating for power shift to the Central Senatorial District. “And today as it is, power is in the central. So, how can this same person lead a party that will likely change that trend from central to any other senatorial district in the state? This is where we, the genuine aspirants with the intention to rescue Kogi State, discovered an aberration which might likely lead to a factional executive in the state or parallel congresses.” Fidelis said he decided to cry out based on his loyalty to the party, especially having served at the national secretariat and to bring the issue to the public domain to redirect the minds of the national leadership of the party on the imminent dangers ahead and possibility of a major setback for PDP and its chances in the forthcoming November 16 gubernatorial election. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .