 Edi Ekhomu  What made you go into fashion designing? 
When I was younger, I used to sketch. Even when I was in school, you will see those sketches on my notebook. I had always admired my mum’s sense of style and she looked gorgeous in her blazers. I’ve been nursing the idea of going into fashion designing and it has come into fruition. I have decided to take it up professionally and I’m happy that I am living my dreams. I hope to grow it into a bigger and better brand that people will reckon with in the industry. Fashion is my passion. I work with General Elecrtric (GE) by day and on the side, I am a designer. Where do you get inspiration to design?
My inspiration comes from the environment, African culture, colours and fabrics. I make unique and classy outfits that are for work, play and office. Who are your role models in the industry?
While growing up, I looked up to the likes of Deola Sagoe who makes exquisite wears. Her attention to details really caught my fancy. She is a designer of repute and has carved a niche for herself in the industry. I also look up to designers who are doing exceptionally well in the industry. A lot of global brands like Victoria Secrets are doing wonderfully well and have remained relevant. Sometimes, I wonder how they make retailing so easy. Why did you choose to go into fashion retailing?
I chose to go into retailing because in Nigeria, a lot of fashion designers are not into that. So, I want to fill that gap. What kind of fabrics do you work with and how affordable are the pieces you make?
I work with different fabrics depending on what my client wants. I also love to mix and match colours to bring out the best. My pieces are quite affordable depending on what my clients want. What is your view on the fashion industry?
The Nigerian fashion industry is growing and but more work can be done to make it better. We have great talents who are very creative and churning out lovely outfits. Where do you see your brand five years from now?
Five years from now, I see my brand growing and more people wearing my designs. I also see myself making impact in the industry. For the industry to improve, I think more investors should be brought into the sector, funds pumped into it and young talents should be encouraged.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .