International rapper, Offset who is one part of the trio that makes up the rap group, Migos had an encounter with a Nigerian man identified as Chukwuemeka on Twitter yesterday. Offset who was responding to fans through his #AskOffset hashtag had the Nigerian man beg him for money but the “Clout” rapper had a piece of advice instead. The Nigerian man with the Twitter handle, @Chukwuemaka01 asked the international rapper for money by tweeting, “Bro I need money” Responding to the tweet, Offset who had told his followers to ask him anything responded saying, “Gotta grind or find a job until you can fund your dream.” FILE – In this Dec. 13, 2017, file photo, Offset, of Migos, arrives at the U.S. premiere of “Bright” at the Regency Village Theatre in Los Angeles. Offset is facing two felony gun charges after he and his bodyguard were pulled over outside of Atlanta. Clayton County Police Sgt. Ashanti Marbury tells WSB-TV that an officer pulled over a Porsche 911 Friday afternoon, July 20, 2018, for failing to maintain its lane. Police said the vehicle smelled of marijuana, prompting authorities to search the car and find three guns and marijuana. (Photo by Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP, File) Persistent in trying to get money off the rapper who is married to the Grammy award-winning female rapper, Cardi B, Chuwkuemeka responded that the requested money is for his high school fees. This response elicited responses from other Nigerians who felt that Chuwkuwemeka had disgraced the country enough. While some joked that Chukwuemeka’s begging is an international one, others called on the country’s president, Muhammadu Buhari to come get his citizen while another Twitter user called him a national disgrace for begging on social media. Interestingly, Chukwuemeka was also one of the numerous Twitter users who asked ace Nigerian music producer and Mavin Records boss, Don Jazzy for money during his N50,000 giveaway some few days ago. A tweet from July 23rd showed Chukwuemeka appealing to Don Jazzy to help with a laptop and that he has been tweeting for hours. According to him, it would be a dream come true if Don Jazzy could help. He has since changed his Twitter handle following the backlash he received for asking Offset for money. 