 President Muhammadu Buhari welcoming Gombe State Governor, Inuwa Yahaya, during the latter’s visit to the Presidential Villa in Abuja…<br />yesterday    											PHOTO: NAN  Yahaya, who vowed to continue with the programme, disclosed that his state had already designated 200,000 hectares for the scheme, saying the herders deserved sympathy as they are also affected whenever conflicts occur. “I want you to know that any policy Federal Government initiated, Gombe State is ready to key in, because the present administration’s policies are meant for the development of this country. “For instance, on the issue of Ruga pilot scheme, in Gombe, we have more than 200,000 hectares set aside for herdsmen’s use. So, if other states rejected the pilot scheme, we have no reason to reject it rather we demand for its implementation,” Yahaya said. He wondered why the decision was taken to reverse the programme, adding: “Up till today, I didn’t agree that the pilot scheme is suspended. We are going to continue with it, because to us it is a very good initiative. Considering the hardship our brothers and sisters are now facing, we need to find a lasting solution for them, so as to save their lives because they are Nigerians,” he said. On the reason for his visit to villa, Yahaya said he came to see the President as the father of the nation.  “For me as the governor, and then all the good people of Gombe State, we felt we needed to see the president to reaffirm our solidarity and support for him and equally for the ideals he stands for in this country. “Mind you Gombe is 100 per cent APC and we fought, with the support of the president, to deliver Gombe to APC.  That’s why we have to continuously engage and be giving updates on the situation in the state and also what is happening in the country.  That’s why I came to see him.” On what he would do differently as governor of the state, Yahaya noted: “Certainly, you will see difference in terms of good governance and service delivery to the people.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .