 Delta State Governor, H.E Sen. Dr. Ifeanyi Arthur Okowa. Photo/Twitter/GovIfeanyiOkowa  The celebration, which took place at the Event Centre, Asaba, was graced by the National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Uche Secondus, Governors Aminu Tambuwal (Sokoto), Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti), Emeka Ihedioha (Imo) and Godwin Obaseki (Edo) who all hailed Okowa for attaining the diamond age. Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State was represented by his deputy, RAdm. John Jonah (rtd.).Former Governor James Ibori of Delta, as well as former deputy governors of the state, Prof. Amos Utuama (SAN) and Chief Benjamin Elue, at the event, described the celebrator as humble, focused and patient. Tambuwal, who congratulated Deltans for having Okowa as governor for a second term, said: “Governor Okowa will remain the humble servant of the people; he is a good husband and a father, a gentleman, very honest and unassuming, and his decision to celebrate the birthday with people with disabilities is in his character of giving hope to the hopeless.” “Governor Okowa is calm to a fault, but you can only underestimate him at your own peril. He is also a very humble man and we commend him for celebrating his birthday with people with disabilities,” Ihedioha said. Obaseki was also full of praises for Okowa, tracing his achievements from when he was a student of Edo College, Benin City. Ibori, who described Okowa as a prayerful personality, added: “I thank God for your life. I thank God for your humility and we pray God will continue to uplift you. Continue to take decisions in the interest of humanity.” However, Governor Okowa responded: “I want to thank God for keeping me alive; my mother died at 43 and growing up to attain 60, I thank God.” President of the Senate, Dr. Ahmad Lawan, while felicitating with Okowa, urged Nigerians to be committed to the affairs of the country. Lawan told journalists in Asaba: “Okowa is very patriotic, purposeful, dedicated and committed to issues that affect the country. I served with him in the senate and I can tell you that he is always committed to the job he is assigned to do.”Fayemi added: “Okowa is a man who believes in the country despite our different political divides.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .