When it comes to who makes the first move in dating, men are often (and expected to be) proactive. On the other hand, most women leave it to chance.
“It is the man’s prerogative to ask a woman out”, some would say. Is it? There is no better time than now for women to start taking matters in their hands. Some women admit that they would rather die than ask a guy out.
Your love interest may never notice you if you refuse to act. So how do you ask him out? Don’t worry ladies, here are some tips for you: Ask Him For Help
Hardly would you find a guy that would say no to a “damsel in distress”. So ladies, ask him for help with a simple task. Not money, please. Even if it is something you know how to do well, you can feign ignorance. That should get you close enough to know him better. Then you can propose a hangout. Group Date
“Hi. My friend and I plan on seeing a movie this weekend at the cinema. She is coming with her boyfriend. I was wondering if you would like to come with me.”
Make an arrangement with your friends and invite him for a group date. The beach has the perfect ambience for this kind of date. Drop A Note
Remember those love letters we write back in the days to our crush? Yeah, write him something similar but less emotional or dramatic. A simple “I like you. Call me” note would do. Slide In The DM
There are instances where your love interest may be on social media or on a dating site. First, make sure he notices you on the timeline before moving to direct message (DM). You can do this by interacting with his content or post. Then you can slide into his DM and make small talk about his post. Approach Him
This one gives you the jitters but it’s quick and effective. Meet him somewhere you can talk quietly, and tell him you what you like about him. Then ask him if he would like to hang out, could be the cinema doesn’t have to be something fancy. And if you are still having second thoughts, ask yourself: what is the worst that can possibly happen? If he says no, move on dear.