International rapper, 50 Cent no doubts wear the crown as the king of online trolling when it comes to other celebrities. The “Power” star who has never been shy about trolling other celebs has none other than controversial media personality, Wendy Williams as his number one target. In a chat with the celebrity gossip site, Hollywood Life, he breaks down why he goes after her as much as he does. According to 50 Cent, the daytime talk show host has attacked him one too many times on her The Wendy Williams Show and surprisingly he said that the 55-year-old is not even his favourite person to troll, as his list is long. He said: “I don’t like her. You know why? She said things about me consistently over the years and it was at points that I was not necessarily in control of the things that she was talking about and you’ll find its really not… When you’re sensitive to certain things that people are really not just using it for their personal content and gain. But now that she’s successful, I can say things about her. If she wasn’t as successful, I wouldn’t even be talking about her. It would be me bullying a woman,” he continues. “Her being so successful and people are aware of how she had that success. She did it for talking about people. When Britney Spears is shaving her head and umbrella at the camera, it’s not because she doesn’t have a hit record, it’s because of her personal life and that image if you google it, it’s wider than her album covers because people love trouble. And turmoil,” 50 Cent explains. 50 Cent, Photo: Getty Images As for what he loves about trolling, the 44-year-old entertainment mogul says: “Well, people troll me and I’m being jokey constantly and I’m watching and acclimated to their concept of how to deal with things. Nobody sees it when they’re doing it to me but me constantly. And then, when I start to respond that way they go, ‘He’s doing it, too!’” 50 adds that he will “always’ be in the trolling game as he gets such a kick out of it. Interestingly, despite the seeming bad blood between them, 50 Cent says he is open to having Williams appear in a guest spot on Power. On if fans would ever see Williams on the show, he said: “I’m not sure. If the right scene comes up for her, then yes” and that “I wouldn’t stop it if it was the right thing.” Wendy Williams| Photo – US Magazine We reported earlier that Williams who recently filed for divorce from her husband of 21-years, Kelvin Hunter got emotional while speaking about him during an appearance on on SiriusXM’s The Karen Hunter Show with host Karen Hunter at SiriusXM studios.