 Sniper is an unapproved chemical for killing pests sprayed on raw food and for suicide  Mr Sean Nwaogu, the Lagos State Head of Operations and Head Trainer of the organization, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)  on Sunday in Lagos that traders would obey and stop the sale of such substances when NAFDAC began enforcement. NAN reports that NAFDAC had said that from Sept. 1, 2019, no sniper and other related products would be sold in supermarkets and in open markets. “The control measure by NAFDAC and the Senate on the need to ban sniper to reduce its use in suicide attempt is a good one, however, it may not completely stop suicide attempts. “The reason is that there are some other hazardous chemical substances in the open market, which a depressed person can also use to achieve such evil thoughts when in that state of mind. “So, it is the duty of the agency to make sure that the traders comply with the ultimatum given for these chemicals to be out of the markets. “All pesticides and or insecticides are very poisonous, toxic and harmful to humans than just pests which they are targeted, and should be sent out of our markets. “NAFDAC must match their words with action,’’ Nwaogu said. The safety expert said people could be exposed to pesticides through ingestion, inhalation, absorption and injection (sharp objects piercing or cutting the body through contact with chemicals. He also said exposure to pesticides could cause several health effects which could be linked to severe illnesses ranging from respiratory problems to cancer. He added that such chemicals could be extremely toxic as well as cause harmful or adverse effects after a single episode of ingestion, absorption, inhalation or injection. According to Nwaogu, the symptoms shortly after exposure can evidently arise within 48 hours. “It can manifest as a respiratory tract irritation, sore throat, cough, catarrh, eye discomfort, skin irritation, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhoea, and headache, loss of consciousness, extreme weakness, seizures and death,” he said. Nwaogu also said that pesticides could be chronically toxic after a long period of exposure or repeated exposure. “Long term pesticide exposure has been linked to the  development of Parkinson’s disease, asthma, depression and anxiety, attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) cancer, including leukaemia “It can cause harmful effects over an extended period or continuous exposure at low levels.“Low doses don’t always cause immediate effects; but over time, they can cause very serious illnesses’,  he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .