 Dangote  “This is very unprecedented, and this can only be done by Dangote Cement being the biggest of the cement companies. Imagining a cement promo with almost 50 cars, 550 refrigerators, 500 television sets, tricycles and motorcycles; who would not want have any of these at this time in Nigeria?” expressed Mr. Olanipekun Onifade kamoru, Chairman of Onyx Global, a leading Dangote Cement distributor in Oyo town. Recall that an Abraka, Delta State-based cement retailer, Benjamin Igherighe, recently emerged the first grand prize winner of a brand new saloon car, which The Group Managing Director, Dangote Cement Plc, Joseph Makoju, who handed the car key to the Ibadan winner, Godwin, in company with Oyo State Deputy Governor, Raufu Olaniyan, said the promo is a unique way of appreciating Dangote Cement’s customers nationwide.
He said: “As you can see, no lucky dip, no raffle draw, it’s a straight win through scratch card. Every bag of Dangote Cement has a card in it. What you get is what you win. No magomago. Cement sale is like a war, the distributors are the generals while the retailers are the foot soldiers. “At Dangote Cement, we work hard to produce quality cement at affordable price so that we remain the best. Every time, we try to grow loyalty by rewarding our stakeholders; the last time it was the retailer, this time around it’s the consumers.” Makoju noted that about eight million bags of cement of high quality are released to the market daily, made possible by robotic technology, with Dangote Cement ranked among the 10 top producers in the world. Commenting, Olaniyan, who was represented by his Principal Private Secretary, Laide Raji, noted that Dangote Cement has revolutionised the industry, and led efforts in making Nigeria self-sufficient in cement production and consumption.He said: “the xcitement here shows there is a bond and connect between the company and its customers. And I make bold to say that Oyo State also identifies with Dangote Cement. It is a global brand.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .