 Anchor University  Speaking during the launch and special presentation from AUL students and the New Horizon, Joshua said the solution was built to automate and boost students’ efficiency and library administration.He said: “Students usually complain of not having the time for physical library registration. Also, there is a need for standard monitoring system to track library materials and operations. The app came as a response to this need.” Lauding efforts of the New Horizon and school management, he said the developers went through three months rigorous training and was worth it. On behalf of the team, Joshua added that they hope to do more for smooth running of the school system. Vice Chancellor, AUL, Joseph Afolayan, said the initiative was in line with what the institution is driving at since it emphasises on outcome-based learning as required to thrive in the 21st century.He added that products of the institution should be able to defend and demonstrate knowledge acquired, as touching both soft and hard skills garnered in the process of learning. Appreciating the New Horizon for the scholarship opportunity, he said: “We are glad on behave of our students that they have earned what qualifies them for the award through hard work and curiousity to learn. We want our products to be employers of labour and make us proud anywhere they are.” To ensure that the impact of the collaboration is deepened, Afolayn said noted that other departments in the institution would be beneficiary of the scholarship programme. Chief Sales & Marketing Officer (CSMO), New Horizon Bolaji Olaoye, said the essence of the training is to achieve a synergy between the industry and the academics. He added that the digital age is so demanding, hence, the need to bridge the gap by collaboration and ensuring that students get the required industry skills. “We give scholarship yearly and we have been able to reach many institutions and students. The students are then taken through different skill set in information technology. This is in line to enhancing a transformational and technological economy,” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .