Natural Hair photo naturalsisters.co.za We all want long shiny hair that is not breaking out or itchy. However, only few people have this kind of hair, this is because what we eat often affects our hair. While good nutrition can improve hair growth, bad nutrition can affect your hair growth. Below are some foods that can boost hair health: Eggs are full of protein and essential nutrients that contribute to hair health and growth, such as vitamins A, D, and B12. Protein is the building block of hair and eggs are one of the richest natural sources of protein. Spinach is packed with magnesium and iron which are very good for the hair. When your body is running low on iron, then, oxygen and nutrients are not getting transported to the hair roots and follicles adequately, hair growth will be affected and these make the strands weak. Other leafy greens like Jute, kale also offer lots of benefits for skin and hair. While we hear a lot about the benefits of salmon, omega-3 and vitamin D-packed sardines to the heart, we hear little about their benefits to hair. They often come readily and cheaply available in canned form. Omega 3 is very useful for the hair and this is present in Sardines. Tomatoes are packed with vitamin C, which assists several enzymes in doing their jobs. One of those jobs is the formation and maintenance of the collagen, the structural protein found in your skin which strengthens strands of hair. Drink carrot juice every day for quick hair growth. The hair contains the fastest growing tissues in the body and vitamin A is required for the growth of every cell. It also helps the scalp in producing the natural sebum oil which keeps it and the roots healthy. This boosts hair growth. Vitamin C is required for the production of collagen that makes capillaries that connect to the hair shafts strong thus, ensuring regular supply of nutrients and quick hair growth. What other food are you familiar with drop comments below. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment