Every now and then, we encounter fake people saunter in our lives and unconsciously we let them stay. However, if you get that uncomfortable feeling in the pit of your stomach that you are not okay with someone because something feels phony about them, then you need to know how to deal with them. In case you are wondering how you can handle fake people in your life so that you can move on to bigger and better things, we have listed some no-nonsense ways. Distance makes the heart grow fonder they say but in this case, it doesn’t. Distance is key when dealing with fake people because it keeps you at a non-attached level with them and helps you keep your sanity. Keeping your distance from fake people in your life may sometimes be impossible and if this is the case with you, you can limit the interaction and engagement they get from you. Giving the cold shoulder might be awkward but it is necessary sometimes to cut fake people out of your life. Fake people are toxic and dangerous. Whatever you do, don’t stoop to their level. Don’t lower yourself to participate in whatever it is that they are doing. It’s hard enough sorting your own stuff out and you don’t need to take on a project of trying to wrangle those cats into the pen. If the fake person is talking about people or trying to change perceptions, just ignore it. Validation means they can continue to act that way. Couple photo goodhousekeeping.com There are times when you need to take the bulls by the horn by pointing out people’s fakeness to them and let them know you don’t appreciate the misrepresentation they are making about themselves. Let them understand you won’t tolerate such behaviour anymore but like narcissistic people, understand you can’t fix them. If the person you think is fake is close to you and you are of the opinion that you can help them get through it, you can ask some light and topical questions about why they act the way they do and offer to help them work through some of the things they bring up. If they don’t offer anything, don’t probe.