Afroprom King and Queen With the level of publicity and media hype deployed by the organisers ahead of the maiden edition of the concert, anticipation was high. Besides, being the first-ever Afrocentric Prom concert in Nigeria, many predicted the Afroprom gig was going to be a blast. Indeed, it was a huge success. The Eko Hotel Convention Centre in Victoria Island, Lagos, was the place to be last Sunday, as students from across the city of Lagos stormed the venue to be part of the historic groove that lasted into the night, which was lit up by performances from the likes of Teni, Rema, Joeboy and Fireboy and others. An initiative of J. Vanni Global, the event, which had been highly anticipated since it was announced in May, saw thousands of students listing their expectations for the night on social media, as they waited breathlessly for a historic event at one of Nigeria’s most iconic venues. Speaking on getting students from over 100 secondary schools to attend, Assistant Creative Director and Road Manager, J. Vanni Global, Adebisi Odubela said, “We had to visit every school because we wanted these teens to know that we were serious about creating a platform for them.” In addition to music performances from the stars, the excited crowd was also treated to comedy from ace comedian Ushbebe, alongside electric dance renditions by celebrity dance group Dream Catchers, and Don Flex & the Extigate team. Apart from entertainment, the audience also listened to inspirational speeches from popular musician-turned politician Banky W, multi-award winning media personality and Red Media co-founder, Debola Williams, as well as Bada Akintunde Johnson, country manager of Viacom International Media Networks Africa. Also speaking at the event was Mrs Adebimpe Ihekuna, Group Head, Products & Markets Development Group, Polaris Bank Limited, who addressed the teaming audience on seven important keys required to drive unimaginable success: characteristics common with the bank. The noticeably vocal and excited audience then took in the spectacle of the crowning ceremony for the maiden prom King & Queen, who were each voted in by the audience from a shortlist of three, which was selected from hundreds of entries. Master Ogbole Kenneth, a recent graduate of St Gloria’s college, Ikeja and Miss Okonkwo Angela of Apex brilliant academy, Alimosho, emerged winners of the maiden prom King & Queen crowns respectively. In addition to their star prizes, the prom King & Queen will also enjoy an exclusive lunch with a celebrity act next weekend. Commenting on the success of the event, J. Vanni Global Creative Director, Mobola Abiru said, “This is what we always wanted to do: create a platform for these teens and young adults to mingle and network freely, learning key life values yet having the time of their lives. We are proud of this initiative and how great this turned out to be.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .