 NCC Building  Long-Term Evolution (LTE) is a standard for wireless broadband communication for mobile devices and data terminals, based on the GSM/EDGE and UMTS/HSPA technologies. It increases the capacity and speed using a different radio interface together with core network improvements. Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, executive vice-chairman/CEO Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), who was represented by Ismail Adedigba, head, Information, and Reference Consumer Affairs Bureau stated this at the ongoing 5th edition of ICTEL EXPO 2019 in Lagos. According to him, “we are ensuring that all new sites to be built by the mobile network operators (MNOs) are Long Term Evolution (LTE)-compatible. “We also strive to ensure implementation of harmonised Right of Way (RoW) charges on state and federal government highways at the cost of N145 per linear meter to encourage the faster rollout of telecoms infrastructure. “We are also working with relevant stakeholders to ensure the elimination of multiple taxation and regulations; encourage the spread of 3G coverage to, at least 80 percent of the Nigerian population over the current 56.4%of the population covered with 3G networks. “Furthermore, the Commission is encouraging the operators’ upgrade of their 2G base transceiver stations (BTSs) to 3G; spread of Fifth Generation (5G) to, at least five per cent of the population; spread of 4G/LTE services to 100 per cent of the population with a minimum broadband speed of 1.5 megabit per second (Mbps); and finally, deployment of at least one Access Point of fiber with a 10 gigabyte per second (Gbps) capacity in all the 774 Local Government Areas (LGAs) of the Federation through the INFRACO.” He noted also that the fourth industrial revolution will have the capacity to enhance every facet of our lives and not just the workforce alone. The NCC boss revealed that the technologies of the fourth industrial revolution have the potential to connect everything into one giant communicating network. Danbatta said “the Fourth Industrial Revolution’s technologies, such as AI, augmented reality, robotics, Cloud computing, Big data, Over-the-Top (OTT), Block-chain technology, advanced security systems, and 3-D printing, etc., are rapidly changing the way humans create, exchange, and distribute value. “As with previous revolutions, this will profoundly transform institutions, industries, and individuals. “More importantly, this revolution will be guided by the choices that people make today: the world in 50 to 100 years from now will owe a lot of its character to how we think about, invest in, and deploy these powerful new technologies. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .