 African ICT Foundation, (AFICTF)  Furthermore, the Foundation also demanded that the monitoring of communications must be authorised by the courts, and individuals under surveillance must be informed as soon as possible after the conclusion of the surveillance operation that their communications have been intercepted; stressing that mass surveillance must be prohibited by law.
  
Amessinou also charged African governments to work towards the adoption of the African Declaration of Internet Rights and Freedoms in their respective countries, and seek the ratification and enforcement of all international and regional treaties related to the protection of human rights on the Internet in their respective countries.
  
He stated: “Access to the Internet should be available and accessible to all in Africa without discrimination. Policies and regulations on Internet access and accessibility that promote equal and universal access to the Internet must be adopted. The cuts or slowing down of access to the Internet or parts of it for entire populations or segments of the public should not be allowed on any grounds.” While advocating for full, active and equal participation of women in decision-making on the form and management of the Internet, he said the Foundation is concerned about the role of women and girls to have the means to take action against gender inequality on the Internet.
  
He said it was time African nations eliminated all forms of gender-related discrimination against women and the girl-child, saying: “Men and women should have equal access to learning, definition, access, use and configuration of the Internet. The Internet governance framework must be open, inclusive, accountable, transparent and collaborative.
  
“It is important that multi-stakeholder decision-making and policy formulation be improved at the national level to ensure the full participation of all stakeholders.”
  
He therefore concluded that “States and non-state actors must respect and protect the right of all individuals to access and use the Internet. Everyone has a right to due process in connection with any legal claim or breach of law relating to the Internet. States must respect the right of every individual to equal protection before the law.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .