With over 50,000 subscribers in its estates across Nigerian states, Messrs Adron Homes & Properties Limited has disclosed plans to extend investment portfolios into West African states. The firm has also unveiled the initiative, which would give 30per cent discount to new subscribers as well as 50per off price for existing subscribers who make an additional purchase of products and services. Group Managing Director of the company, Dr. Adetona EmmanuelKing stated this during the unveiling of Ileya promo and the 7th-anniversary special reward to the company’s customers in Lagos. He said a significant addition has been made to existing 26-estates in Nigeria especially, in Lagos, Abuja, Ibadan and Ogun states, stressing that part of plans this year was to establish a presence in some west African states like Ghana, South Africa, Kenya and others. EmmanuelKing who was represented by the Group Chief Responsibility Officer, Mrs. Fisayo Oloruntoba at the forum which featured the unveiling of brand ambassadors which include, Nollywood actors Saheed Balogun, Alhaji Adebayo Salami and musicians, Yinka Ayefele and Alhaji Sadik, appreciated subscribers for contributing to the growth and expansion of the firm noting that the success of any company could be judged by the loyalty of her clients and the quality of subscribers. “The initiative is for everyone and not necessarily for Muslim brothers and sisters. We pledged a discount on all housing products. You can buy a home from N16.5m to N20m with payment spread. Our past records have shown that all believers have always participated and benefited in the Ileya promo”. “We started with 100 acres in 2012. Our first landlord signed up in March and got their allocations within six months and all necessary building documents provided. To celebrate this season of Salah the management would be giving out 10,000 bigrams and other special rewards and gifts items to new and existing subscribers who buy one or more of our products”, he stated. Speaking on the promo, the Group Executive Secretary of the firm, Ayodeji Ojo-Omoniyi assured subscribers that the company would continue to make housing and land available at affordable prices to all Nigerians at home and abroad, especially the low and high-income class. He maintained that the company is committed to improving the standard of housing that is affordable and long-lasting in the country.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .