he President of a Mapo Customary Court , Ibadan, Chief Ademola Odunade, has dissolved a four year-old marriage between one Olanrewaju Osibanjo and Adedolapo over unrepentant nagging and troublemaking. Odunade held on Friday that any union that might bring about disorder and termination of life did not worth it. “In the interest of peaceful living, the union between Olanrewaju and Adedolapo has ceased to be especially because there is no child in the union. “However, the plaintiff shall pay N5, 000 to the respondent to enable her pack her belongings,” the Arbitrator said. Earlier, Olanrewaju, a building Engineer and resident of Oluyole Industrial Estate in Ibadan had informed the court that his wife was making his marriage an irritation through her unrepentant nagging and troublesomeness. “My lord, aside from the fact that Adedolapo has refused to be productive by getting pregnant, she has also refused to give me a peaceful marital life through her constant nagging attitude. “To say the least, there is nothing I have not given to Adedolapo to make her comfortable, but she keeps embarrassing me not only at home and public places, but also in the Church. “Sometimes during Church service, she could start to rage at me. “I have reported her to her relatives, but she has refused to turn a new leaf and I don’t want to resolve to self-help which might be tragic,” Olanrewaju said. However, the respondent opposed the suit, but could not clear herself of the allegations leveled against her from the way she spoke. Adedolapo, a businesswoman, submitted that one Prophetess was responsible for her husband’s decision to turn against her. “My lord, Olanrewaju and I never had any fight except a minor problem that took place on Jan. 1, this year. “One day, I checked through Olanrewaju’s mobile phone and I saw a certain prophetess number, who later came to tell my husband that I was a bad omen to him. “The prophetess misinformed him that I was not the right wife for Olanrewaju. “I still love him, please help me save my marriage,” Adedolapo begged. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), reports that the respondent had ignored the court’s judgment by entering the car which her husband brought with the intention of going back home with him. Again, it took the intervention of the court’s president before Adedolapo could get out of the car. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .