Bitter-Kola Bitter Kola is a plant from Africa and it has a lot of health benefits. Almost all the parts on this plant can be used for health purpose. Below are some of the benefits of bitter kola: When it comes to the improvement of sexual performance, especially among men, bitter kola is very useful. Bitter Kola does not only increase sex drive, it also improves the sexual performance of men who consume it. In other to be effective, it is advisable to chew the kola for at least two minutes before intercourse. The seed and leaf of bitter kola have antibacterial activity. Researchers have discovered that they have ability to clinically isolate Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli, Salmonella typhi and Streptococcus pyrogens. Bitter kola has a high amount of antioxidant. This high amount of antioxidants found in bitter kola helps the body to increase its immunity level. When the immunity level of the body is increased, it becomes strong enough to fight against any foreign contaminant. According to scientists, chemical constituents in bitter kola have anti-malarial properties. Additionally, the stem, bark, and seeds of bitter kola are used to treat acute fever, inflammation of the respiratory tract and throat infections. Glaucoma is a condition of increased pressure within the eyeball, causing a gradual loss of sight. It could result in permanent blindness if left untreated. However, bitter kola has been found to be an amazing remedy for the eye. When bitter kola is eaten, at least twice a day, it could successfully reduce the eye pressure. Bitter kola is a potent antibiotic with many detoxification abilities. Chewing bitter kola will prevent any infection or poison that might happen when you accidentally ate something contaminated by bacteria or poison. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment 