PHOTO: Fausat Ibironke (Housing & Urban Devt), Thomas Gyang (Planning & Budget), Samuel Aruwan (Internal Security & Home Affairs) and Hassan Usman Mahmud (Riots Damage and Rehabilitation) taking their oaths of office in Kaduna. Kaduna State governor Mallam Nasir El-Rufai Friday swore in new commissioners in the state. “Following the confirmation of his commissioner-nominees, Malam Nasir @elrufai is today swearing-in the new members of the Kaduna State Executive Council,” the state’s twitter handle stated. “The first batch of commissioners sworn-in are signing their job descriptions.” Hafsat Baba, one of the newly sworn commissioners, will lead one of three ministries created by the state’s Executive Order of June 2019 which scrapped three others. “In a major rejig of the governance structure, Malam Nasir el-Rufai has signed an Executive Order to create and restructure ministries in Kaduna State,” El-Rufai’s spokesman, Samuel Aruwan, said in a statement in June. The order abolishes the Ministry of Commerce, Industry & Tourism, the Ministry of Rural & Community Development and the Ministry of Water Resources. It amends the mandates of the ministries responsible for local government, women and social development, works and sports. The newly created ministries are Business, Innovation and Technology; Housing & Urban Development and Internal Security and Home Affairs. Ministries with amended or expanded mandates include Human Services and Social Development; Public Works and Infrastructure and Sports Development. Baba will head the Ministry of Human Services & Social Development will be the champion of women, youths and other vulnerable groups. She will also drive Arts & Culture and monitor the equal opportunity agenda Other commissioners who took the oath of office include Prof. Kabir Mato (Sports Development), Ibrahim Husaini (Environment), Balaraba Aliyu-Inuwa (Public Works and Infrastructure) and Shehu Usman Mohammed (Education). Aisha Dikko (Justice), Ja’afaru Sani (Local Govt Affairs), Bashir Saidu (Finance), Idris Nyam (Business, Innovation & Technology) and Hafsat Baba (Human Services & Social Development) were also sworn in as commissioners. Others include Prof. Mato, Ibrahim Husaini, Balaraba Aliyu-Inuwa, Dr Shehu Usman Mohammed, Fausat Ibironke (Housing & Urban Devt), Thomas Gyang (Planning and Budget), Samuel Aruwan (Internal Security & Home Affairs) and Hassan Usman Mahmud (Riots Damage and Rehabilitation).  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .