 Unemployment. Photo/VON  The group said only interested applicants ready for its training and mentorship in fashion, agricultures, technology, housing, education and re-investment programmes stands to benefit from the first batch of N60,000 million. ACGEL is a registered non-governmental organisation, whose operation in Nigeria and Africa, is aimed at training and mentoring prospective entrepreneurs to help reduce unemployment by creating jobs for the people. A Senior Board Trustee member of ACGEL, Greatness Oladapo, disclosed this yesterday, at the ‘’Nigeria Job Explosion Summit (NJES) organised by the group in Abuja. Oladapo said, “From the Nigerian Bureau of Statistics (NBS), which states that as at 2010, Nigeria’s unemployment rate was 5.9 percent, it rose steadily to 8.19 percent in 2015, by 2017 3rd quarter, the unemployment rate had more than doubled, peaking at 18.80 percent. Moreover, as at 2018 3rd quarter, unemployment rate in Nigeria has increased to 23.13 percent, this is unacceptable.” He explained that it is so sad that in real terms, 20.9 million Nigerians are currently unemployed, while 18.2 million are underemployed bringing the total up to 39.1 million . He said that more worrisome is the fact that the present unemployment rate amongst the massive growing population is fuelling kidnappings, banditry, insurgency, and armed robbery.. He assured interested Nigerian entrepreneurs to send their applications to www.legs.africa, as successful candidates would be contacted immediately, saying: “My advice for the unemployed is that there are jobs, there are jobs, and there are jobs in this country; they should look inwards and forget deficiencies of government.” He appealed to government to make the registration of limited liability companies easier and flexible as well as eliminate double taxes for small scale businesses in Nigeria. Commenting, the Director-General, ACGEL, Adeola Onadeko, called on stakeholders to support the organisation to check the rising unemployment rate in the country.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .