 Isoko Boy  Ogudu, who turned 27 recently, is known for his online comedy skits, which has earned him the title of Nigeria’s number one complainer. He began producing and sharing his comedy skits on his Instagram and has kept growing a huge follower base. Isokoboy began producing comedy videos, which enjoyed rave reviews, bringing him relative success and fame in the Nigerian entertainment industry. His videos have not only enjoyed likes and comments but also brought about some social media clashes with popular celebrities such as Mercy Aigbe, Bobrisky, Cossy Orjiakor and many more. The video caught the attention of many and gained lots of likes and comments, Isokoboy decided to capitalise on that as a motivation to start a career as a social media influencer on Instagram. Apart from being an Instagram celebrity, Isokoboy is the founder of View Nigeria’s online newspaper and Delta Fashion Week. “I was featured in a popular UK-base twitter page for calling out celebrities that use fake things to make up themselves in efforts to build self-worth,” he disclosed. The Igbide, Isoko-born artiste had his early education in Igbide, Delta State. At the age of 10, he left his parents to join his elder brother in Lagos, where he stayed for seven years before returning home to start a new life. He began his career as a website designer in 2009, and by 2012, with financial support from his mother to further his education, Ogudu set up a cyber café. “Two months into the business, there was a fire disaster that burnt everything I had in the cyber café,” he said. Ogudu didn’t give up as he continued building his online blogs, which he monetized with Google Adsense. According to him,  “I received three different cheques from his accumulated earnings from the Google Adsense programme but was unable to clear them.” He attempted clearing the cheque at a  bank in Warri but was almost arrested “because they thought it was a fraud. I wasn’t able to clear the cheque until 2015, which had accumulated to $12,000.” From 2013, he became a brand promoter for several popular Nigerian comedians like Ogus Baba, I Go Dye, Igosave, Maleke, Opa Williams whom he helped promote three editions of the night of a thousand laughs, Ace comedian Bovi, Musician Humblesmith, etc. The high point of Ogudu’s creative entrepreneurial drive was when he founded the Delta Fashion Week, an open-source youth-run organisation that is “focused on providing a platform for young designers, buyers, media and fashion enthusiasts to view collections from leading designers across Nigeria and Africa,” he said. “The next edition holds on June 12, 2020.” Isokoboy, who is currently based in South Africa, was nominated for the African Social Entertainment Awards in South Africa under the category for  Best Social Media Comedian 2019. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .