 Super Eagles training ahead of AFCON match against Algeria. Photo: TWITTER/NGSUPEREAGLES  The Man of The Match in the victory over South Africa on Wednesday said,
 
“Algeria is a good side. I just watched their game against Cote d’Ivoire, which they won. To beat them on Sunday won’t be an easy task. But with determination on our side, we will beat them.”
 
Chukwueze, who is the youngest member of the current Super Eagles squad, described their game against the Bafana Bafana of South Africa was the toughest in the Nations Cup so far. “The South Africans played a more tactical game, and they gave us more problems than other teams we have played in this competition.”
 
Also speaking on the game, defender, Kenneth Omeruo said victory tomorrow would be a collective responsibility of all Nigerians. “We need the support of everyone to do it against Algeria,” he told The Guardian at the team’s hotel in Cairo.
 
Omeruo, who scored Nigeria’s lone strike against the Syli Nationale of Guinea in their second group match in Alexandria, which qualified the Super Eagles to the round of 16, said though the Algerians are good, the Eagles will triumph at the end of hostilities.
 
Adding to his voice to the expectations of his mates, striker Paul Onuachu said he would give the Algerian defense problems if given a role to play in the game. “We have good wingers in this team, and as a striker, I will position myself in the Algerians’ defense to wait for crosses from the wings. If I get any, I will punish Algeria.”. Meanwhile, Algeria will miss two key players when they file out against Nigeria. Galatasaray’s midfielder Sofiane Feghouli and Nice’s defender Youcef Atal are both unlikely to feature in the crucial game to decide who plays in the final. Youcef Atal was replaced by Mehdi Zeffane in the 30th minute of the encounter with Cote d’Ivoire after picking up an injury. He would later be joined on the treatment table by Feghouli who was also replaced by Andy Delort deep into stoppage time. Both players are not expected to be fit for tomorrow’s clash. The winner of the match will play the victor of the other semifinal tie between Senegal and Tunisia by 8.00 p.m. Nigerian time. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .