Since coming out to share her rape allegation story, Busola Dakolo has found her name mentioned in various conversations and peddled rumours. Busola who is married to Nigerian singer, Timi Dakolo came forward last week with allegations of rape against, Biodun Fatoyinbo, the global senior pastor of Commonwealth of Zion Assembly (COZA). In her allegation, she alleged that the cleric raped her twice in four days as a teenager and mixed reactions have since been trailing the allegations. Filtering into the social media sphere is the rumour that the Dakolos got married COZA, the same church headed by her alleged rapist, Fatoyinbo. In the development of this rumour, Pastor Yemi Davids of Global Impact Church has come forward to clear the air. In an Instagram post, the cleric said the Dakolos married in his church and he had to come forward to put this out there as a pastor, father, and friend. He wrote, Hmm… I feel the need to do this especially as a husband, father and a pastor. @busoladakolo got married from our church to @timidakolo, and as a friend to the family, i\ve been privy to some of the personal stuggles Busola has had ove rthe years, based on teh details she expressed at the recent interview. This is her truth and it should be honoured. I commend her for her bravery and i pray this helps her healing process. I also noticed that there was a denial of the allegation. It is impiortant that the truth comes out. Rape is a serious offense and it is unacceptable. A process that unveils the truth in this hurtful situation in the Body must begin immmediately. We leaders MUST be accountable and i support a process at arriving at Justice, Healing and Restoration in this matter. #TruthSetsFree #ISayNoToRape Fatoyinbo in the wake of the allegation has stepped in what he termed a ‘leave of absence from the pulpit’ while his wife, Modele Fatoyinbo has also defended her husband saying that he is not capable of raping any woman. Timi Dakolo also lent his voice to the matter:   Desperate people do desperate things including ridiculous attempts at a smear campaigns. So let me address this foolishness once and for all 1• First the ridiculous rumor that Biodun wedded us. Please watch the video yourself , does the Pastor look like Biodun Fatoyinbo? His name is Pastor Seyi of Global Impact church officiating the wedding and that is a statement from Yemi Davids ,Pastor of Global impact church on this issue …but nameless and faceless cyberbullies cant read , can they ? 2• I have never met or been in the same space with Biodun Fatoyinbo nor do I ever want to be and have never been a member of COZA 3• I guess that also answers the desperate attempt to say I was a music director in COZA. Funny as I have never been a music director in ANY church ! A church cant have an anonymous music director can they ? Foolishness ! 4• Apparently I had a child, divorced and remarried Busola – Spirit wife and child tings #AfricaMagic , and Busola was given monetary gift ,car and flown to chicago . No be only Chicago , na Soweto. Please do better ,tell more believable lies . Again I say, desperate people will do desperate things …but as I said before …WE. ARE .READY. We came out to speak on this painful matter . To bear the shame that goes with this, to be ridiculed, to be doubted …just so that others might be saved and justice served . We are not backing down and no amount of manufactured lies can stop the truth that has started to unveil… #notinmychurch #unbroken #truth A post shared by  Timi dakolo (@timidakolo) on Jul 4, 2019 at 6:46am PDT  Desperate people do desperate things including ridiculous attempts at a smear campaigns. So let me address this foolishness once and for all 1• First the ridiculous rumor that Biodun wedded us. Please watch the video yourself , does the Pastor look like Biodun Fatoyinbo? His name is Pastor Seyi of Global Impact church officiating the wedding and that is a statement from Yemi Davids ,Pastor of Global impact church on this issue …but nameless and faceless cyberbullies cant read , can they ?
 2• I have never met or been in the same space with Biodun Fatoyinbo nor do I ever want to be and have never been a member of COZA 3• I guess that also answers the desperate attempt to say I was a music director in COZA. Funny as I have never been a music director in ANY church ! A church cant have an anonymous music director can they ? Foolishness ! 4• Apparently I had a child, divorced and remarried Busola – Spirit wife and child tings #AfricaMagic , and Busola was given monetary gift , car and flown to Chicago. No be only Chicago, na Soweto. Please do better ,tell more believable lies . Again I say, desperate people will do desperate things …but as I said before …WE. ARE .READY. We came out to speak on this painful matter . To bear the shame that goes with this, to be ridiculed, to be doubted …just so that others might be saved and justice served . We are not backing down and no amount of manufactured lies can stop the truth that has started to unveil… #notinmychurch #unbroken #truth