SUNDAY DARE The tapping of Mr. Sunday Dare, executive commissioner (Stakeholder Management) of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) as a ministerial nominee from Oyo State by President Muhammadu Buhari is spot on. Simply expressed, Dare, has an impeccable professional and public record. Committed, determined, hardworking and team spirited; Dare has requisite education which has equipped him for duties assigned to him. Until his appointment at NCC, he was the convener of the Social Media Clinic (SMC), a Media/Information Technology (New Media) initiative, committed to educating private citizens on IT development and also in the use of telecommunication as an information tool and creating awareness on how to responsibly use the platform provided by advancements in Information and Communication Technology (ICT). At NCC, he has brought a wonderful combination of incisiveness and approachability, and completely demystified public office with his open door policy. He was assigned to oversee aspects of the operations of the NCC and brief the minister on issues, challenges and opportunities in Nigeria’s emerging telecommunications market A great motivator, he has always left indelible marks wherever he been called upon to serve. He was chief of staff /special adviser (Media) to Ahmed Bola Tinubu, former Lagos State Governor, as well as senior special assistant (Media) / chief of staff to the Minister of Information and Communications in 2009. A graduate of International Studies from Ahmadu Bello University, Dare has decades of multimedia journalism experience spanning about 25 years (1991 and 2016). He was the chief, Hausa Service, African Division, Voice of America (VOA) in Washington, DC from 2001 to 2009, and was a founding member of the Nigerian weekly magazines The News and Tempo in the heady days of the military, where he served as editor, Tempo magazine and pioneer online editor/general. Dare is a recipient of many awards and has been recognized internationally, including being identified as one of the 50 Leading Nigerians in North America 2010 in commemoration of Nigeria’s 50th Anniversary. He also won the Voice of America Meritorious Honour Award 2009 in recognition of his skillful leadership and outstanding performance; and he also bagged a Committee to Protect Journalists Citation in 2000 by the New York based organization in acknowledgement of his courage as a journalist. A right peg in every place he has served, Dare, is a member and associate of several professional bodies including the US based International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) the Investigative Workshop, American University and a former Knight Fellow, International Center for Journalists (ICFJ), Washington DC. Dare will be a valuable asset to President Muhammadu Buhari’s government as he brings his uncommon candour to nation building. His critical thinking and strategic planning skills will come handy for the administration. He is good pick.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .