Nigeria’s Chief of Army Staff, Tukur Buratai, said cries of insecurity in different parts of the country are part of a political game and insisted that security agencies have reduced the influence of insurgents. Buratai spoke at the 1 Division super camp in Kuyello, Birnin Gwari Local Government Area of Kaduna State. “Apart from some isolated remote areas as a result of some other factors, the attacks have drastically reduced,” Buratai said. “All these cries of insecurity which some groups and individuals are taking it as a political game I think they should have a rethink because it is no longer the case.” He opined that efforts of the army have been “a great success which people should be assured.” Buratai’s statement was made on the day former Nigeria president Olusegun Obasanjo warned President Muhammadu Buhari on the rising state of insecurity in the country. “This issue (insecurity) can no longer be ignored, treated with nonchalance, swept under the carpet or treated with cuddling glove,” Obasanjo said. Obasanjo accused Buhari of “poor management or mismanagement of diversity” leading to a “very onerous cloud is gathering” The former president said failure to address the security issues would result in “rain of destruction, violence, disaster and disunity” in Nigeria. But contrary to Obasanjo’s observations, Buratai said the security situation across the country has improved. He opined that insecurity has been tamed in the northeast and in the northwest and other areas. Security challenges in northern states of Nigeria- Zamfara, Borno, Sokoto, Katsina and Kaduna have consistently been on the rise in recent months. It has led to the death of over 80,000 people and displacement of over 2 million residents since 2015. While many have faulted Nigeria’s security agencies on their roles in security citizens of the country, former Nigeria’s defence minister Mansur Muhammad Dan Ali said the Nigerian Army has achieved “achieved a lot of success in killing bandits.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .