 The 2018/19 graduating class with officials of the school  This year’s graduation ceremony of final year students, 2018/2019 sets of Apostolic Faith Secondary School (AFSS) at Anthony in Lagos State was marked with grandeur and characterised by an avalanche of prizes and awards on the graduating students at various levels. Addressing the audience, the Principal, Mr. Sule Olanrewaju Amidu said: “Akachukwu Anumudu has made the school, Lagos State and Nigeria proud by his outstanding performances as one of the graduating students, and for coming first and emerging the Best Science student in Nigeria among 13,000 participants in a National Science Competition which was organized by Interswitch SPAK (Speed Precision Accuracy Knowledge) with the star prize of N7.5 million awarded to him. In addition, in commemoration of the 2019 World Sickle Cell Day, Akachukwu also represented AFSS among 22 schools in a quiz competition and came first. And to cap it all, on graduation, in academic excellence he carted away best prizes in Mathematics, Further Mathematics, English Language, Computer (ICT), and Physics among others. Amidu thanked the Church, School Board of Governors, teachers, parents, members of staff and students for their prayers, support and cooperation for the successes recorded. He admonished the graduating students to have focus. “What does it mean to be focused? It means the ability to set one’s mind and attention on a particular cause until it yields the desired results. Giving a lot of attention, time and efforts to one particular area of life and knowing exactly what you want to achieve.  “When the road ahead seems too long to trod, when the hill seems too steep to climb, when it seems impossible to reach the summit, do not give up, do not lose hope, continue to the end,” he advised the graduands. In the same vein, the Proprietor, Reverend Adebayo Adeniran represented by the Chairman, Board of Governors, Reverend Titus Itanola, advised the outgoing students to maintain the Godly virtue gained in the course of their education in the college as they would further their education in higher institutions home and abroad when their stands will be put to test. “But be assured that God will always be there for you in keeping with His promise that He will not fail thee nor forsake thee Deuteronomy 31:6.” In a farewell message, the Chairman of the occasion, Reverend Sola Opaleye appealed to the outgoing students not to compromise to do evil; quoting Proverbs 1 verse 10 “My son, if sinners entice thee, consent thou not’, while they should remember their alma mater. Highlights of the event include, graduation lecture delivered by Dr. Charles Oni, Yaba College of Technology, songs rendition, award of prizes to various students on academic performances including best behaved girl, Okogie Hadassah; best behaved boy, Ude Chimdiebube; neatest girl, Emem Edem; nearest boy, Ekpunobi Harrison; most dutiful girl, Anyika Akachukwu; most dutiful boy, Obodo-Elue; neatest class SS3 Diamond; and farewell speeches by the Senior Prefects Boy and Girl, Ekpunobi Harrison and Akponovwe Favour (Outstanding Prefect) respectively. The Parents Forum expressed delight and thanked the school administration for maintaining discipline and high standards while donating Instructional Gadgets to the school. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .