 LUTH  The Association of Resident Doctors (ARD) LUTH Chapter had on June 18, 2019 called off its 11-day strike after most of their demands for going on strike were met. However, Public Relations Officer (PRO) of LUTH, Mr. Kelechi Otuneme, yesterday refuted a report titled “Patients’ life at stake as LUTH doctors, management trade words over indefinite strike.” Otuneme told The Guardian: “The resident doctors have called off their strike since June 18, 2019. They have since resumed full activities. Go round the hospital and see for yourself. Activities are at their peak. “The report is stale. It suggests that resident doctors are still on strike and the lives of patients are at stake. That is not true. As you can see, the doctors are attending to and admitting patients. Our theatres are fully booked and operating optimally. We just had a little setback during the strike but all that belong to the past now. A patient, who spoke with The Guardian but preferred anonymity, said: “I am happy with what is happening now. They have attended to me. I am waiting for the results of some of the tests I have done. The nurses are very polite.” Read More: LUTH doctors to meet over strike today Meanwhile, the President of ARD, LUTH Chapter, Dr. Kayode Makinde, had said that the decision to call off the strike was reached after the intervention of chairman of the board and Ministry of Health. “We have had our meeting and work will resume tomorrow based on the intervention,” he said. They have made promises to address our demands. We believe them and that is why we allowed them to intervene. “We honoured them by suspending the strike, as we expect them to keep their own side of the bargain in the interest of all Nigerians,” Makinde told journalists. Also, Chief Medical Director of LUTH, Prof. Chris Bode, told The Guardian: “We don’t have power failures in LUTH anymore because since December 2017, our Independent Power Plant (IPP) has been working. That complaint that people used to say there is no light is over. We are excited about it because the gas-powered generating plant is working. It is IPP; we have 24-hour electricity now. These are indices of growth. Our water supply is good. The services and facilities in LUTH are comparable to anywhere in the world. You need to visit the place. “We need to look inwards. Go to the Advanced Fertility Centre/In Vitro Fertilisation (IVF), their rate was 52 per cent pregnancy per cycle last year. That is as high as anywhere in the world. If you achieve 30 per cent, they call you Baba. We are having triplets, twins, and singletons quietly. Those things are working the way they should. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .