 Petrocam  Acting Director of DPR, Ahmed Shakur, told journalists in Lagos that the company committed an infraction against the agency in one of its gas plants in Ayobo, a suburb in Lagos State. Shakur said there was the need to enlighten members of the public on the agency’s surveillance and industry regulatory requirements, particularly as it affects the oil and gas industry. Shakur also said the agency’s team on surveillance found the company to be operating a big gas plant, a facility that was sealed for committing an infraction, adding that ”unfortunately, the company went against the rules of the agency and unsealed the facility. “The team also went back to seal the facility for the second time. However, the company had the audacity to remove our seal. So, on that basis, the agency had no option than to impose some sanctions and these affected all its retail outlets nationwide. “We stopped the supply of petroleum products to the company. As of today, the company has complied with the rules of the department and they have shown remorse on their actions. Also, we have reviewed their positions, and decided to lift the suspension against the company,’’ he said. The DPR boss, however, informed members of the public that the department had zero tolerance to any act of infractions by licensed operators in the oil and gas industry. He said that the agency was committed to creating an enabling environment for businesses to strive. “We are aware of the trial moment in our economy, and we know a few of those companies that are operating in downstream that are adding value. We will also collaborate to ensure a conducive environment to operate in. “The department will not tolerate any act of infractions from any marketers. This should serve as a warning to all marketers that henceforth, the department would not hesitate to impose any sanction on any defaulting marketers. “We are willing to guide and collaborate to make sure we deliver a product in a safe manner to members of the public,’’ he said. He said in Lagos alone, there were over 1,500 filling stations that were legal, noting that “there is an extent to monitoring that could be done every day. He warned that the department would not hesitate to clamp down any erring marketers found guilty of committing any infractions. “The department will always ensure that such stations sealed can only be opened when they have complied with DPR’s regulations”, he added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .