 Protesters gather outside Kwai Chung police station in support of protesters detained with the charge of rioting during recent clashes in Hong Kong on July 30, 2019. (Photo by ISAAC LAWRENCE / AFP)  Hong Kong has been hit by seven weeks of mass protest rallies — some of which have ended in violence — triggered by a controversial bill which would have allowed extraditions to mainland China. They have evolved into calls for wider democratic reforms and a halt to sliding freedoms in the most significant challenge to Beijing’s rule since the city’s 1997 handover. The last two weekends have seen a dramatic surge in the level of violence used by both protesters and police who have repeatedly fired rubber bullets and tear gas to disperse projectile-throwing crowds. A mob of pro-government thugs also attacked protesters putting 45 people in hospital. In the latest clashes with police on Sunday, protesters fought running battles with riot officers in a well-heeled residential suburb on the main island with 49 arrests made — 32 men and 17 women aged between 16 and 41. Police late Tuesday said 44 of those arrested were being charged with rioting and would appear in court on Wednesday morning. Another man was charged with possession of an offensive weapon with the others released. Rioting is one of the most serious public order offences on Hong Kong’s statute books and carries a sentence of up to a decade in jail. Edward Leung, a prominent activist, was jailed for six years last year after he was found guilty of rioting in clashes with police in 2016. Protest outside the police station 
As news of the charges emerged, hundreds of protesters gathered outside a police station where local media reported that the group were being held. They shouted “Add Oil” — a popular Cantonese phrase of encouragement — and “Reclaim Hong Kong, the revolution of our times”, the campaign slogan used by jailed activist Leung that has become an increasingly common chant in recent weeks. The police station had metal shutters pulled down over the door and all public-facing windows. The move to charge the 44 protesters comes a day after Beijing publicly threw its weight behind Hong Kong’s unelected leader Carrie Lam and the police, saying violent protesters must be swiftly punished. “No civilised society or rule of law society will tolerate rampant violence,” Yang Guang, spokesman for the cabinet-level Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office, told reporters in a highly unusual public press conference. Yang blamed the violence on a “few radicals” and said it “bumped into the bottom line” of the “one country, two systems” principle that governs the financial hub. He also accused Western politicians of making “irresponsible remarks” to “mess up Hong Kong” and contain China’s development. Beijing has issued increasingly shrill condemnations of the protests but has left it to the city’s government to deal with the situation. No compromise 
Lam has shown no sign of backing down beyond agreeing to suspend the extradition bill and has made few public appearances. Police have not released a detailed breakdown of arrests and charges since the protests began but an AFP tally of public statements shows at least 170 people have been arrested since 9 June. Protesters have vowed to keep their campaign going until their core demands are met. They include the resignation of Lam, an independent inquiry into police tactics, an amnesty for those arrested, a permanent withdrawal of the bill and the right to elect their leaders. On Monday, activists held up trains on the city’s subway system during the morning rush hour, leading to lengthy delays and long queues for buses. It was not the first time they have used those tactics, but the disruption was more widespread than previously. Under the 1997 handover deal with Britain, China promised to allow Hong Kong to keep key liberties such as its independent judiciary and freedom of speech. But many say those provisions are already being curtailed, citing the disappearance into mainland custody of dissident booksellers, the disqualification of prominent politicians and the jailing of pro-democracy protest leaders. Public anger has been compounded by rising inequality, the high costs of living and the perception that the city’s distinct language and culture are being threatened by ever closer integration with the Chinese mainland. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .