Dutch airline KLM. Photo/youtube About 100 days to the commemoration of its 100th anniversary, KLM Royal Dutch Airlines has expressed readiness to join hands with other stakeholder for the future of aviation. The airline, in an open letter, invited all industry stakeholders to join hands in pursuit of a more sustainable future for aviation, under the banner “Fly Responsibly”. On October 7, KLM will become the world’s first airline still operating under its original name to mark its 100th anniversary. KLM has reached this milestone because it is committed to seizing opportunities, accepting challenges, connecting with partners and embracing new technology. This special moment 100 days before KLM 100th anniversary was planned to coincide with the arrival of KLM’s first Boeing 787-10 dreamliner. While having already 13 B787-9 dreamliners in operation, KLM now starts adding B787-10’s, growing to a total of 28 dreamliners. The fleet renewal program is an important element to achieve the ambitious sustainability targets. The arrival of this aircraft from the Boeing factory in the USA is facing some small delays. It’s expected though to arrive in the next few days. The delivery process sometimes runs into minor issues or other small holdups which is the case now. President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of KLM, Pieter Elbers, said over the past hundred years, KLM’s entrepreneurial spirit and quest for innovation had played a pioneering role in the aviation industry. “Our centenary is an opportunity to reaffirm our commitment to our ambition: to become the most customer-centric, innovative, and efficient European network carrier with a deep-rooted determination to address the challenges that lie ahead. “Starting today, we will reach out and share our best practices and tools, all we have learned about sustainability, with all our competitors. We value competition, but not when it comes to the sustainable development of aviation. Starting today, we will offer all airlines our CO2ZERO carbon compensation programme free of charge and free of KLM branding. And in return, we invite others to join us and share their best practices for the benefit of a more sustainable future,” Elbers said. At the event, Dutch Minister of Infrastructure and Water Management, Cora van Nieuwenhuizen, said the success of KLM is the success of the Netherlands. “With a wide-ranging network and a large number of destinations, KLM Royal Dutch Airlines is of great importance for our accessibility, our business climate, employment opportunities, and the position of Schiphol Airport.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .