 Zola Electric  The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Zola Electric, Bill Lenihan, at a partnership meeting between Zola Electric and OVH Energy, in Lagos, recently, stated that the partnership was consistent with company’s plan to make access to renewable energy products easier across Nigeria. Lenihan further explained that the partnership offers Zola Electric access to OVH Energy’s 385 filling stations pan-Nigeria, as well as a strong platform to reach millions of homes and businesses with its advanced solar power solutions. “Beyond making the lives of all Nigerian’s easier and more comfortable through better access to our efficient solar energy solutions, this partnership means ZOLA would also be driving more economic growth as we improve business productivity across the country,” Lenihan said. Also speaking at the partnership meeting, the Managing Director, Zola Electric Nigeria, Abdallah Khamis, explained that Zola remains committed to meeting the energy needs of consumers regardless of their economic status. “It is a great delight to be a part of this partnership which we believe is bound to reinforce our commitment to address the energy needs confronting Nigerians. We believe this collaboration is a clear demonstration of our strong resolve to meeting the energy needs of Nigerians,” he said. In his remarks, the Chief Executive Officer, OVH Energy, Huub Stokman, revealed that the partnership is a huge step toward the expansion of its Non-Fuel Revenue base, expanding its product offering beyond fuel, lubricant and gas-related products and services to now include renewable energy solutions by ZOLA. “We believe this collaboration has a huge potential of promoting and growing our business. Beyond this, we are confident that this partnership would help push the innovative solar solutions of ZOLA to meet the energy needs of Nigerians,” he added. Stokman commended Zola Electric for offering itself as a solution provider in tackling the challenge associated with access to clean, reliable energy.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .