The 2019 edition of Big Brother Naija is currently underway after kicking off on June 30th and as expected, the show is generating a lot of buzz. With this year’s edition tagged Pepper Dem, viewers are expecting to see a lot of hotness and pepper and if there is anything the first week has taught us, it is to expect surprises. The first week of the show witnessed shockers like two evictions, stealing and the battle of accents. For many viewers, the first thing we all noticed in the first week was that many of the housemates seemed to have one foreign accent or the other, making us wonder if we were still watching Big Brother Naija. Some of the current housemates not based in Nigeria and have a ‘foreign behaviour’ to them that even a housemate, Omashola during a diary session with Biggie had to complain about it and also tag most of the others as boring. Asides noticing the battle of accents that seem to be going on in the house, the week also came up with the surprise when Biggie told the Head of House, Jeff that there would be an eviction this first week of the show. This is the first time in the history of the show that there will be an eviction in the first week. Usually, at least two weeks go by before housemates are put up for eviction and this surprise eviction also followed an unusual pattern. When housemates are put up for eviction, there is a voting process to allow their fans, media team as well as viewers to save some. The housemate(s) with the lowest vote is then sent packing. The news that housemates would be sent packing on Sunday put all the housemates on edge and for this eviction, the housemates with the least Bet9ja coins were to be up for eviction. Apparently on edge, Ike suggested stealing coins from other housemates but this idea was shut down by Jeff who said that he likes to put himself in other people’s shoes. At the end of day, trades, business and dashing was done to help others with Tacha refusing to part with her coins as she believes if she was the one with low coins, none of the others would help her. Surprisingly, after Saturday’s party, Omashola came back to find 100 of his 120 coins missing and he lost it. A fight almost ensued between him and Seyi about the theft and he also got into a heated argument with Ike. His argument with Ike flouted Biggie’s rules and they were added to the list of housemates put up for eviction but Biggie later turned it into a strike for them. However, for this surprise eviction, the housemates put up for eviction, Isilomo, Khafi, Gedoni and Avala were asked to play a game in the arena with the two housemates with the lowest points to be evicted. At the end of the arena game, Avala and Isilomo had the least points and were subsequently sent home. It waits to be seen what this new week has in store but if there is anything we have learned, it is that the game is fully underway and the race for the 60 million grand prize has already begun.