 Commissioner of Police in Lagos, CP Zubairu Muazu  The CP said community policing system would allow the citizens to play major roles in the policy making as well as helping in reducing the the crime rate in the society. “Community policing will requires the police involving the community in deciding policing priorities and also to promote transparency and honesty,” he said. He made this call during a Stakeholders Security Meeting And Community Policing with the theme “Policing The Community By The Community” hosted by the Area Commander, Area F, ACP Olasoji Akinbayo in Lagos. Mauzu said the meeting is to deliberate on how ensure active partnership between the Police and the community in providing quality service to the people. The CP further added that part of the values of the community policing is that the police must  respect and protects the rights of the citizens through demonstrable commitment in delivering best quality at all time. He also noted that citizens who are with genuine sense of grievance against the police will have effective redress because the police are answerable to whatever they do , therefore all officers are admonished to conform with the rule of law. The town hall meeting was sponsored by Opay Nigeria Limited. Also, speaking at the stakeholders meeting is human rights activist, Dr. Joe Odumakin who said the police has not gained the support from the community to effectively hold grassroots, instead they have been victims of hostile reactions. She noted that Community policing will improve police support. While she admonished the citizen on the need to support police so as to achieve great collaboration with them. “Cooperating with the police will help them solve crimes, and protects the community with less use of arms.  She however calls for support for the police  so that security must prevail. Earlier, the Area F Commander , Assistant Commissioner Of Police , ACP Akinbayo Olasoji in his welcome address said the gathering is to find a lasting solution to curbing the rising crime in the state in the area of cultism, kidnapping, and youthful exuberance. “The police cannot do it alone, therefore we seek the support of the and corporation of the community to fight crime in our society,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .