Outgoing students of Kings College being inducted into the alumni body Man hangs self over financial crisis in Agege 
To curtail the rising cases of suicide in the country especially among students, Director and Principal of Kings College, Lagos, Mr. Andrew Agada, has urged students to desist from such acts, saying it is not the best way to handle situations. He spoke at the award and excellence graduation ceremony of the 2018/2019 set of the school, tagged: “Dare to be different.” This is coming on the heels of another suicide incident that occurred in Orile-Agege area of Lagos on Tuesday evening. One Hamed Ishaku, living at No. 29, Azeez Olaosebikan Street, off Soretire, Orile Agege, hanged himself in his room with a rope tied to the ceiling fan. Neighbours said it was an intentional act by the deceased, as the late Ishaku had lately been complaining about his financial status. The body was evacuated and prepared for burial on Tuesday night. He left behind a wife and children. According to Agada, there is need for parents and tutors to do a lot more by going to God in prayers for the children and also encourage them to take their troubles to God. “By the time you use the word of God to bring them up, I think whatever challenge they face they will take it to go to God in prayers for solution.” Agada also challenged the graduands to make a positive change in whatever field they find themselves, noting that the students were primed to behold the world as a platform for limitless possibilities. “Given your exposure to enduring values and axiomatic principles at King’s College, you are ready to nurture your innate abilities to adulthood, when you will impact the nation and indeed humanity’s growth and development. You should therefore beware that the world looks up to you to provide that coveted leadership that changes the society for good.” Also speaking, Engr Jani Ibrahim noted that the school was not founded for character and academics only but to prepare young boys for leadership of Nigeria in all spheres of human endeavour. In his farewell message, the school captain, Adeyinka Ayobami, said: “Having spent six years in King’s College, I have learnt that success is to be measured not so much by the position that one has reached but by the obstacles, which one has overcome while trying to succeed.” In his goodwill message, the Parent Teacher Association (PTA) chairman, Mr. Yinka Oduntan, urged the graduands to make the best use of the life lessons they have learnt at the school. “Your name once built should be your priceless jewel.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .