 Nigeria’s forward Odion Ighalo celebrates his goal during the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (CAN) Round of 16 football match between Nigeria and Cameroon at the Alexandria Stadium in the Egyptian city on July 6, 2019. (Photo by JAVIER SORIANO / AFP)  While some believe that may just rise up to the occasion, beginning with today’s game against South Africa, there are those who say the Super Eagles have been anything, but super and therefore cannot cross the ‘Red Sea.’ Odion, a factory worker in the Surulere area of Lagos told The Guardian that he is unwavering in his belief that Nigeria will come out tops at the end of the competition. “ I believe Nigeria will defeat South Africa… they are not really good at football like our boys,” he said, adding that the South Africans shock defeat of Egypt was not a true reflection of their strength. Bright, a businessman, who also has his business in Surulere, agrees with Odion. He said: “Our boys have been performing well since they started this competition. I know that Mikel will lead them to victory. Bafana Bafana can’t withstand Super Eagles.” However, another businessman, who identified himself as Joe, said the Eagles do not look like a team capable of achieving greatness in Egypt. “The main problem of the Nigerian team is that they don’t prepare adequately. They love nepotism, if they can remove this two problems then they would be better than what they are doing today.” 21-year-old David, a tennis player training at the National Stadium, Lagos said the Super Eagles are no match for the South African team, adding they would be lucky if they scored one goal. Two sisters, Faith and Simi, who are also tennis players, described the Super Eagles as fond of disappointing the country, adding that only a miracle will see Nigeria through in the quarterfinal tie. Saikou, an athlete from The Gambia, also doesn’t think Nigeria would beat the Bafana Bafana, saying the Super Eagles have been riding on luck. “The game gets tougher from tomorrow so I am expecting the worst from the Eagles. There is an extent that luck can lead one,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .