No fewer than 10 persons have been feared killed and dozens wounded following Sunday evening’s attack by bandits on Zango village in Kankara Council of Katsina State. The 5 p.m. invasion, it was learnt, lasted for hours, as the assailants reigned supreme. Though sources gave varying casualty figures, it was however gathered that no fewer than 10 people were killed and more than 20 others injured. The Guardian equally understood that a good number of women and animals were kidnapped and rustled. The injured are currently receiving treatment at the Kankaraw General hospital while the dead were yesterday buried. A source, who craved anonymity, said: “Several people were killed and many others sustained injuries. As I am talking to you now, we are on our way to the hospital.” Efforts to reach the spokesperson for the state police command, SP Gambo Isah, for comments were futile as he neither picked this calls nor responded to the text message sent to his mobile line as at press time. However, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, has assured that the prevailing killings, robberies and kidnappings nationwide would be a thing of the past soon. Also, the member representing Nnewi North, Nnewi South and Ekwusigo Federal Constituency, Chris Azubogu, and that of Awka North and Awka South, Chinedu Onwuaso, have said the legislative and executive arms of government was collaborating to ensure the protection of lives and property across the federation. Gbajabiamila, who spoke through the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Minority Leader, Ndudi Elumelu, at Onwuaso’s inauguration thanksgiving service at Saint Faith Cathedral, Awka, Anambra State, pointed out that the legislature was preoccupied with how best to engage critical stakeholders, including the traditional rulers and community leaders, in effective policing of communities. On infrastructure decay, especially federal roads in the South East geo-political zone, the speaker stated that the issue would be addressed to boost businesses and other economic activities in the area, just as he raised the hope of empowerment of women and youths in the region. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .