A former Governor of Kogi State, Alhaji Ibrahim Idris under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said that a large number of aspirants jostling for the governorship position is good for democracy. This is coming as National Publicity Secretary of the party, Kola Olgbondiyan assured all contestants in the November 16 gubernatorial poll that the party would provide a level playing ground at the primary. They spoke with journalists in separate interviews at the state party congress held in Lokoja at the weekend. No fewer than 53 aspirants have indicated interest to contest the November 16 governorship election on the PDP platform of which four aspirants have obtained their intent and nomination forms, while more contestants are expected to obtain theirs in the coming weeks. Idris said PDP was not bothered about a large number of aspirants, adding that it was a good development that would help deepen the democratic process. “When members are allowed to express themselves freely, no one will feel isolated and will be willing to rally behind whoever emerges as the party’s candidate,” he stated. On his part, Olgbondiyan assured the aspirants that the party would provide a level playing ground for all of them, saying the PDP has learned its lessons and will not impose any candidates on the people. “All interested aspirants will be given equal chance to express themselves, to articulate their position to the electorate for them to decide,” he said. Besides, Engr. Sam Uhuotu was re-elected Chairman of Kogi State PDP in an election supervised by Dr. Iyorchia Ayu, even as one of the aspirants, Alhaji Muhammed Omuya, rejected the process that produced Uhuotu. Announcing the result at the Lokoja Confluence Stadium amid protests, Ayu, who was electoral committee Chairman, with Senator Emmanuel Nwaka  (Secretary), however, commended the peaceful conduct of delegates at the congress, saying the sportsmanship PDP exhibited was a clear indication that it would win the November 16 poll. Uhuotu polled 1,478 votes to emerge, winner, defeating his closest rival, Omuya, who scored 270 votes, while Sam Abenemi and Faruk Yahaya returned unopposed as Deputy Chairman and Secretary. However, Prince Bode Ogunmola polled 983 to defeat Isah Itopa David, who scored 27 votes as Publicity Secretary. Besides the Chairman and Publicity Secretary, all former 27 principal officers of the state party returned unopposed in the newly constituted executive. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .