Asisat Oshoala / AFP PHOTO / CRISTINA ALDEHUELA Super Falcons and FC Barcelona Forward, Asisat Oshoala has stressed the need for government and private entities to invest in the development of girl-child football. Speaking when she visited Emzor Pharmaceutical Industries Limited in Lagos, Oshoala said many African parents often stopped their children, especially the young girls, from pursuing careers in professional football because they want them to focus on education. She said some even send these young girls to hawk wares to curtail their quest for football, adding that she also passed through the same stage. “I am trying to change the mentality and help this generation to believe they can achieve whatever they want. With my foundation, I want to help the under-privileged girls, so that they attend school and play football at the same time.” She said the Asisat Oshoala Foundation, a non-profit organization, is committed to improving the physical, social and intellectual development of the girl-child through education and sports. The foundation also put in place a mentorship programme for parents, she added. She revealed that over the years, the foundation in conjunction with the Lagos State Government and Emzor Pharmaceuticals have partnered in empowering and educating the girl child in Lagos State. Oshoala disclosed that she recently signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Barcelona’s Femini to partner the foundation in the areas of technical support during her football clinic for girls in Lagos. “Every year, we organise a football clinic where hundreds of young girls, including parents were enlightened and educated on how their female children could become professional footballers. Some of these kids are now training with a football academy, FC Robo, here in Lagos. “One of them, Chidimma Okeke recently participated at the just-concluded Female World Cup,” said Oshoala, who is the first ever African to play/score in a UEFA champion’s league final game. Oshoala, who is also the Lagos State Government Anti-Drug Ambassador, added that for her to sensitize and preach to young ones against drug/substance abuse, she usually joined them in their training. This, she said, motivated them to believe in their inner strength and desist from any form of drug abuse. As an ambassador of Emzor, Oshoala said, “we don’t really have companies that are passionate about female football in Nigeria. For almost four years, Emzor has continued to sponsor the national football teams, including Super Eagles and Super Falcons.” In his remarks, Branding & Marketing Consultant, Emzor, Mark Redguard, said: “We have been supporting Asisat since 2016, which puts us in a good position as one of the biggest supporters of sport development among females. Whether on or off the pitch, Asisat has continued to inspire African women across age groups. “She demonstrates this by empowering them with life skills and football development charity initiatives. Once again, we restate our commitment to Asisat, our Brand Ambassador and hope that she can continue to inspire more,” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .