 [FILE PHOTO] Delta State Governor, H.E Sen. Dr. Ifeanyi Arthur Okowa  It has also asked Mr. Ishmael Omolade, who was removed as principal of Ogor Technical College, to refund N11,124,800 he illegally collected from pupils. In a statement, yesterday in Asaba, the Commissioner for Basic and Secondary Education, Chief Patrick Ukah, insisted that the sanctions came on the heels of the report of a panel of enquiry instituted by the ministry. Governor Ifeanyi Okowa approved the report. “Mr. Ishmael Omolade has been removed as the principal of Ogor Technical College, Otor-Ogor; and he is to refund the sum of N11,124,800 being monies illegally collected from students in 2017/2018 and 2018/2019 academic sessions. As a further punitive measure, he has been posted to the headquarters of Technical and Vocational Education Board in Asaba. In addition, normal disciplinary procedures are to be initiated for his early exit from the service. “Equally, the principals of five other technical colleges in the state are to be issued letters of warning for engaging in illegal collection of levies from students. To forestall future occurrence, they are to also refund the amounts illegally collected from students and examination candidates. “The Chief Inspector of Education in Sapele Council, Mrs. Patience Ishegbe, is to be recalled to the headquarters and queried, just as her counterpart in the Ministry of Education, Oshimili North field office, Mrs. Marian Oju, and that of Isoko North field office, Mr. Fidelis Ogbotobo, have been recalled to the headquarters of the ministry in Asaba,” he said. Caught in the same web is Mrs. Veronica Igbigwe, who was removed as headteacher, demoted by one grade level and posted out of Okotie Eboh Primary School 1, Sapele. She is to also refund the exact amount of unauthorised levy she collected. The Guardian learned that punitive measures were also meted to the chairman and secretary of the Association of Primary School Headteachers of Nigeria (AOPSHON), Sapele chapter, Mr. Victor Obukohwo, and Mr. Akpore Umuhurhu. They were demoted by one rank/salary grade level, posted out of their present schools and barred from heading any school for the next two academic sessions.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .