 [FILE PHOTO] Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation, Umaru Ibrahim<br />  Ibrahim made the plea when the management of the corporation paid a courtesy call on the newly elected President of the Senate, Dr. Ahmed Ibrahim Lawan, in his office, last week. While congratulating him, along with the returning and first time Senators on their victory at the polls, he pledged the resolve of the corporation to work closely with his leadership and the Senate Committee on Banking, Insurance and Other Financial Institutions to ensure a stable banking system, which is critical to the stability of the nation’s financial system. He said that in the past, the corporation had worked with the Senate on the Bill to Amend the NDIC Act 2006, through the holding of seminars, workshops and active participation in public hearings, stating that the Senate of the 8thAssembly was unable to pass the Bill unlike the House of Representatives, which accorded the process the priority it deserved. He appealed to the Senate, under its present leadership, to pass the Bill in earnest in view of its importance to the stability of the financial system. Ibrahim also recalled the various challenges facing the economy and observed that only a stable banking system could guarantee the sustainable growth of the economy, adding that NDIC was working in partnership with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), and other relevant stakeholders through effective supervision and prudential regulation of the banking system. The NDIC Boss enumerated the supervisory challenges facing the Banking System in the last few years, including issues related to risk management, corporate governance, non-performing loans, and the need to for more efficient management cyber security systems as well as consumer protection. He noted that the Financial Services Regulation and Co-ordinating Committee [FSRCC] comprised of CBN, NDIC, PENCOM SEC, NAICOM and CAC amongstothers, would continue to collaborate to ensure financial system stability. Responding, Lawan promised that the Senate would immediately commence work on the Bill to Amend the NDIC Act 2006 afresh as the work earlier done by the 8th Senate had lapsed with the expiration of that Assembly. While thanking the NDIC management for the visit, he noted the importance of the corporation as an institution that ensured the safety and soundness of the banking system in Nigeria through the protection of depositors and acknowledged that it had done quite well in the discharge of its mandate over the years. He assured the management that the Senate Committee on Banking, Insurance and Other Financial Institutions, when constituted, would work closely and assiduously with NDIC to ensure the protection of citizens against adverse activities in the banking sector. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .