African Walnut The African walnut (king of nuts) is mostly found in Nigeria and some other parts of Africa. In the Western part of Nigeria, it is known as “ASALA” while in the Southern part, it is called “UKPA”. It is one of the well packaged nuts that Mother Nature has blessed us with! But guess what? Most people consume it without knowing its health importance. Here are some health importance of this fruit: Have you heard of L-arginine before? It’s very vital for those suffering from hypertension and other heart diseases! And guess what? African walnuts have loads of it! These fruits are regarded as fertility boosters and it has been seen as well from medical research that men who eat African walnuts on daily basis are prone to have increased sperm quality. The presence of healthy fatty acids in these nuts such as omega-3 fatty acid among others plays a great role in sperm development and fertility boosting in women as well as men. For instance, taking a serving of this nut for over 8 weeks has been shown to boost men’s fertility. To shed off that excess body weight, belly fat and reduce body cholesterol, the African walnut is a top choice snack for you. But know that you must stick to the serving size because they are quite high in calories. In addition, for those having disturbed sleep especially at night, taking this special nut before bedtime might be that magic pill you need because it increases your melatonin which acts on your brain and signal your body to give you a sound sleep. Also, African walnuts are rich in omega 3 Fatty acids which aid to regulate hormone levels and manage menstrual cramps pains . African walnut is completely healthy for men and women. When I say African walnuts, I mean the nuts and all the derivatives. Walnut leaf extract is another natural antioxidant that plays a good role in regulating menstrual flow. It helps to improve proper menstrual flow and inhibit menstrual flaws experienced by several women while menstruating. African walnut is a healthy snack to help reduce the risks of type 2 diabetes. Walnut fruit is a good source of vitamin B-6 also known as pyridoxine which helps the human brain to function properly and improves cognitive ability. The healthy fats and pyridoxine in African walnuts are key facilitators to improving cognitive function. Growing kids should tap from this benefit as well! With the high antioxidant and iron content of African walnut, you are sure to ward off infections, anaemia and even eye related problems by just consuming a serving of this nut daily! African walnuts have been shown to play a vital role in reducing the risks of prostate and breast cancer in humans. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment