 [FILE] Manchester United’s French midfielder Paul Pogba celebrates scoring a second goal. (Photo by Oli SCARFF / AFP) /  An under-pressure United struggled in their pre-season opener against a weakened Perth Glory, who won Australia’s A-League Premiers Plate last season. After a scoreless opening half, manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer changed his entire lineup and inserted several stars, including Pogba whose uncertain future at Old Trafford, has overshadowed United’s pre-season tour of Australia. United finally cracked Perth’s tenacious defense in the 60th minute when Pogba showcased his sublime touch with a deft backheel to forward Marcus Rashford, who struck it past goalkeeper Liam Reddy. After being linked with a move to Real Madrid and Juventus, Pogba played the entire second half and helped the United find more fluency. James Garner, 18, sealed the result with a long-range strike in the dying stages. Suffering from a lack of numbers for the friendly, Perth fielded a youthful team including two 15-year-olds. Solskjaer rested most of his guns in the first half, including Pogba, Rashford and regular goalkeeper David de Gea. United, in their new gold away strip, controlled a subdued first half with speedy winger Daniel James eye-catching on the left flank. Teenage midfielder Tahith Chong worked his way into the game after a slow start but could not a breakthrough. The Dutchman was on the end of Perth’s physicality when he received a strong bump from Glory captain Shane Lowry that looked more reminiscent of the Australian Rules football match played on the same Perth Stadium ground the night before. After a dismal end to the 2018-19 season, United’s underwhelming performance keeps the pressure firmly on Solskjaer who took the reins from Jose Mourinho last December. Romelu Lukaku, reportedly looking to secure a move to Inter Milan, was rested but is expected to play on Wednesday against Leeds United. After their 10-day Australian tour, United continue on for pre-season games in Singapore and China.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .