A Senator representing Kogi West Senatorial District, Dino Melaye Monday said he will not be part of a ‘rubber stamp’ National Assembly. “I want to assure you that I will not be part of a rubber stamp National Assembly or Senate,” Melaye said during an interview on Channels Television while reacting to the ongoing ministerial screening. Melaye criticised the screening exercise as an adoption of the ministerial nominees. He said it has not been screening as it ought to be. However, Melaye said he could not object the ongoing screening as he is not a principal officer of the Senate. Melaye, a staunch critic of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led government argued that names of ministerial nominees should be sent to the Senate with their proposed portfolios. “It would be better if the president was submitting the names of the ministers with their portfolios so that we know their area of competence and we can ask them questions within the jurisdiction where they are going to serve,” Melaye said. He opined that anyone given responsibility should be aware of his roles in the assignment. Melaye said the ministerial nominees screening was the opposite. Nigerian Senate president Ahmed Lawan Tuesday, July 23 announced a 43-man ministerial nominees list sent by Buhari. In the ministerial nominees, Buhari listed former ministers such as Chris Ngige, Hadi Sirika, Rotimi Amaechi, Adamu Adamu, Mohammed Adamu, Babatunde Fashola and Lai Mohammed. Others in the list are Uche Ogah, Emeka Nwajuiba, Sadiya Farouk, Musa Bello, Godswill Akpabio, Sharon Ikeazor, Ogbonnaya Onu, Akpa Udo, and Adebayo (Ekiti). Also, Timipre Sylva, Adamu Adamu, Shewuye (Borno), Isa Pantami, Gbemi Saraki, Ramatu Tijani, Clement Abam were also declared as part of the nominees. Paullen Tallen, Abubakar Aliyu, Sale Mamman, Abubakar Malami, Muhammed Mamood, Rauf Aregbesola, Mustapha Buba Jedi Agba, Olamilekan Adegbite, and Mohammed Dangyadi. Nigerian Senate Monday, July 29 resumed screening of the remaining 12 out of the 43 ministerial nominees. The Senate commenced the screening on Wednesday, July 24. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .