 Storm clouds pass over Saint Louis Cathedral in New Orleans, Louisana on July 11, 2019,  as tropical storm Barry approaches. – Tropical storm Barry barreled toward rain-soaked New Orleans on July 11 as the city hunkered down for an ordeal that evoked fearful memories of 2005’s deadly Hurricane Katrina. Barry is predicted to become a Category 1 hurricane before making landfall Saturday with maximum winds reaching 75 mph. (Photo by Seth HERALD / AFP)  The weather system is expected to reach hurricane strength Friday or early Saturday when it nears Louisiana’s coast, according to the National Hurricane Center (NHC), and has already caused major flooding in the low-lying city. Trump on Thursday issued a national disaster declaration, which will allow federal agencies to participate in emergency relief efforts, in response to a request by Louisiana governor John Bel Edwards. “Thank you, President Trump, for quickly responding to my request… We appreciate the support of the White House and our federal partners as we continue our unprecedented flood fight,” the governor said in a tweet Thursday. The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) separately announced that it would temporarily halt immigration enforcement activity in areas subject to the state of emergency. It said that the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agency would not target migrant families who were evacuated during the storm, ahead of sweeping operations nationwide to detain and deport illegal immigrants expected to start this weekend. “Our highest priority remains the preservation of life and safety. In consideration of these circumstances, there will be no immigration enforcement initiatives associated with evacuations or sheltering related to the storm, except in the event of a serious public safety threat,” the agency said in a Thursday press release. The incoming storm has evoked memories of Hurricane Katrina, the costliest and deadliest hurricane in US history, which submerged about 80 percent of New Orleans as the city’s flood defences gave way. Katrina also pounded other parts of Louisiana as well as Mississippi and Alabama, leading to about 1,800 deaths and more than $150 billion in damage. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .