 Coca Cola company  The aim of the flagship programme Replenish Africa Initiative (RAIN), is to provide access to sustainable clean water, sanitation and hygiene services to over 10,000 residents in and around Nsukka, Ezeagu, Uzo-Uwani, Isiuzo, and Enugu South LGAs in the State. A statement made available by the Water Aid said the projects would be managed by Global Environment and Technology Foundation (GETF), technical partners to TCCF. Water Aid Country Director, Dr ChiChi Aniagolu-Okoye, decried that millions of people in Nigeria are still without access to clean water, decent toilets and sanitation, and the adverse consequences on health and socio-economic well-being are glaring. She was quoted: “There can be no development in any community or nation without access to these basic services and progress in the achievement of Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 6 means progress across all other sustainable development goals. Aniagolu-Okoye further said the scope of the project would provide about 2,250 people per day with access to clean water, refurbish 15 boreholes across benefitting communities and construct five new hand pump operated boreholes. She added that an estimated 5,000 households will also receive toilet facilities along with small scale water service programmes designed to empower women and stimulate grassroots economic empowerment. Speaking on The Coca Cola Foundation’s global commitment to RAIN, Public Affairs & Communications Director, West Africa Business Unit, Clem Ugorji, said projects of this scale are necessary to catalyse and improve the lifestyle and wellbeing of struggling Nigerians, especially those in rural areas. He was quoted, “Our strategy is to look for smarter ways to produce such that our water footprint is significantly reduced. We also ensure that our business system leverages on recycling technology to eliminate all forms of water wastage, and finally, under our RAIN programmes, we commit to return 100% of the water we use in our products back to nature and communities while protecting watersheds and preserving aquifers.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .