 Captain Muhtar Shaibu Usman  Speaking at the event, Director-General, Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Captain Muhtar Shaibu Usman, said there is need to educate the public on the consequences and challenges of dealing with dangerous goods.Usman, who was represented by NCAA Flight Operations Inspector, Retired Group Capt. E. C Agu, said: “I am here not to talk about dangerous goods only, I am also here to say that awareness about dangerous goods is not good enough.“I am looking forward to seeing more adverts on dailies to educate people on the consequences and challenges of dealing with dangerous goods, which the public do not know.”
  
Also, Deputy Corps Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Anthony Daudu, said transporting dangerous goods by road is a serious challenge that should be tackled by the Federal Government. Daudu, who was represented by the Lagos Zonal Commanding Officer, FRSC, Mike Obayemi, said: “This is a laudable business that will go a long way in rejuvenating the transport system in Nigeria.
 
“For that reason, we are going to see how we can work together with you, because what we see on daily basis on our roads, especially along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, is something that baffles a lot of people. I pray Nigeria should not be a dumping ground for dangerous and hazardous goods,’’ he said.
 
Earlier, the Group’s Chief Executive Officer, Dapo Omolade, said the primary objective of the launch was to create awareness and inform Nigerians that Hybrid had received approval to commence business in Nigeria.“We are now accredited and recognised as a member of the highly esteemed Dangerous Group Management (DGM) support, a global entity operating in more than 45 countries across various continents of the world. The group is helping individuals and businesses build the needed competences and structures to handle and manage dangerous goods.
  
“DGM is highly recognised by government and private institutions like the International Air Transport Association, International Federation of Freight Forwarders Associations, among others. They have, by extension, recognised our quality in the holistic management of dangerous goods,’’ Omolade said. According to him, the focus of the business is to ensure that the multi-model transportation of dangerous goods are safe and without accidents.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .