Registrar CRFFN, Samuel Nwakohu For Nigeria to achieve a rapid and sustainable progress in freight forwarding, the Council for the Regulation of Freight Forwarding in Nigeria (CRFFN) has stressed the need for practitioners undergo frequent training and exhibit professional ethics in their endeavours. The Registrar, (CRFFN), Samuel Nwakohu has however reiterated the determination of his administration to capacity building in freight forwarding profession. Nwakohu made the declaration recently in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates, while declaring open a two-day Training/Retreat organized for the governing council members and management staff of the council. He noted that the move became paramount and topmost in his one-year strategic plan for the council in order to provide a platform for interface with the key stakeholders and consultants for Ease-of-Doing Business, since freight forwarding has become a global business. He disclosed that the journey of education and training of freight forwarding practitioners had started, adding that he would leave no stone unturned in enhancing the knowledge base of Freight Forwarders and his staffers for efficient service delivery and improved revenue generation for the country. The CRFFN boss therefore expressed his profound gratitude to the organizers and sponsors of the Retreat/Training SW-Global, and also to the governing council members and expressed optimism that the training would impact positively on them for easy delivery of the projects and called for their continuous support in driving home the mandate of the council. Vice Chairman of the Governing Council, CRFFN, Henry Njoku, revealed that for a rapid and sustainable progress to be achieved, the council must imbibe the culture of teamwork, geared towards professionalism, not just as instrument but also as a mantra for performance. He restated that the cultivation of the spirit of teamwork, by the leadership of the council would pave way for a collective rebuilding, injection of new ideas that will reposition the freight forwarding industry and would in turn reduce unhealthy rivalry, altercation, envy and acrimony amongst staff and management of the council. Speaking at the event, Barrister Theodore Mayaki of KWO Chambers stated that the significance of the Training/Retreat for the industry stakeholders cannot be over emphasized since CRFFN is at threshold of development of freight forwarding industry in the country and should therefore serve as a stimulant to Nigeria’s industrialization and trade agenda, stating that it was high time Nigeria redefined their interest in trade across the globe. He enjoined the council to come into full realization of the tenets of the establishing act while remaining committed to her provision of platform for interface of all relevant stakeholders in order to achieve great fist in the industry. He also urged the council to work towards the establishment of an independent tribunal alongside independent prosecutors for exclusive jurisdiction. Another speaker, Chinedu Eboh of Kolo Baldwin Consulting Ltd outlined such factors as transparency, accountability, consensus, orientation and inclusive participation of all concerned, amongst others as panacea for the accomplishment of good corporate governance. He enjoined the council to work within the stipulated ambit of the rules and laws guiding its operations in order to achieve her desired goals. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .