   Hence I said men are becoming endangered species in the hands of women. The other time, it was the younger sister of the accuser who saved the accused from being lynched, saying “I saw my sister putting her own underwear in the man’s bag” and the accuser endured only small beating from the boys who would have set the accused man ablaze. There seems to be no doubt that Solomun (not Sulyman oh) and the female student really did it, going by the investigations, confession and denial of it. Solomun was unarguably unprofessional in his conduct. But if truly there was penetration and real action on someone who is claiming to be a virgin, what happened to the expected blood? I remember the Committee also wanted to know how Solomun used one hand to close her mouth to prevent her from shouting and the other single hand to undress her in an office where people were milling around. Then after the act, Solomun left her in the office. She dressed and went out of the office dodging so that nobody saw her. I am worried by some facts. Let us give the female student name, Monica Tripp. She (Monica) was “demoted” from one faculty where she could not cope to the faculty and department of Solomun where it was hoped she would cope, meaning that she is not new in the institution, and ought to know the meaning of “level adviser.” Why was she pursuing Solomun instead of painstakingly searching and waiting for the level adviser? There were too many people in the bank, Monica could not pay-in; she was pursuing Solomun! So, Solomun became her handbag just because he was introduced to her by somebody. Was it for Solomun to become her errands boy, or that bone entered flesh? There is another American twist to it. Where did the N5 million demand originate from; from Monica or from her lawyer? Methinks there is an emerging dimension to the sex for mark thing in Nigeria, waiting to spread to the rest of Africa and elsewhere. The times are hard, economically, since the late President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua abused his presidential powers to attack the Boko Haram Islamic sect-community of men, women and children that did not attack anybody until attacked; compounded by the former President Goodluck Ebele Azikiwe Jonathan, and aggravated by the current President Muhammadu Buhari who added protection of the Fulani herdsmen terrorists to the unjustifiable war against Boko Haram. And so, Nigeria laws must be strengthened against people who target political power to settle religious scores, barbarically. That is the reason the Constitution prohibits state religion! Female students are thinking and learning fast but the negative aspects of their prowess must be checked. I think what pained Monica was that after the act, Solomun left her in the office, as she said. Did he not enjoy it or what? Why did he not give her money in addition to mark? Male teachers need plenty of prayer oh!
Prof. Ọlọjẹẹde Oyeniran Abiọje wrote from University of Ilorin.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .