 [FILE PHOTO] Goodluck Ebele Jonathan  Instead, it advised all the aspirants of the party to focus their attention on unveiling their development agenda for the state rather than deploying underhand tactics to create division between the governor and the former President for targeted political benefits. The Governor’s Special Adviser on Media, Fidelis Soriwei, in a statement yesterday, stated this while reacting to an opinion article sponsored by desperate politicians involved in the governorship contest, which targeted the former President and his family. The governor’s aide decried the detestable situation where politicians seeking to contest the governorship election sponsor parallel publications against him, his team, and the former President and his team with the regrettable intent to deepen disagreement and fault lines in the state. Soriwei, who condemned the acerbic attack on the former President, fingered desperate politicians and their cronies who, according to him, were reacting to the outcome of meetings and consultations between the governor and the former President on the issue of the aspirants in the forthcoming primaries. He, therefore, appealed to all aides and supporters to devote their energy to the propagation of the politics and numerous programmes of the government. He also advised the people to be wary of the sinister antics of desperate politicians who have devised a strategy of division in the PDP as their political lifeline in the state. “Our attention has been drawn to a scurrilous publication targeted at the former President. We have also seen the reaction from people suspected to be the former President’s publicists.” We decry the situation where politicians seeking to contest the governorship election in the state sponsor parallel publications against the governor, his government and his team, and the former President and his family and his team, thereby deepening and taking advantage of disagreement and fault lines in the state. “We have read the publication by the PDP Youth Network and we condemn any attack on the former President. Our suspicion from all preliminary enquiries is pointing in the direction of some desperate gubernatorial aspirants who are doing everything possible to deepen division in the state, especially between the governor and the former President for their own selfish advantage. “They are doing this because they are aware of the meetings and consultations a few days ago between the governor and the former President and the governor’s statement concerning the ambitions of some politicians. “Our suspicion is that those desperate aspirants are sponsoring publications to take advantage of supposed disagreement between the two leaders of the PDP. The government urges the political aspirants to leave the governor and the former President out of the governorship race and concentrate on what they would do; their agenda for the people of the state,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .