 NEROS Pharmaceuticals Ltd, Dr. Poly Emenike. Photo/Successness  Speaking during the public presentation of his latest book, ‘Think & Grow Rich, African Perspective’, in Lagos, he said the most essential factor to succeed in any business is having the desire, mental pictures, and steps on how to achieve them. He said the book, an adaptation of Napoleon Hill’s classic, ‘Think & Grow Rich’, came at the right time based on the economic challenges in the country, which is similar to 1937 Great Depression in the US when the first book was introduced by Hill. Emenike, however, advised Nigerians and other Africans that might be witnessing different challenges in their respective businesses and professional endeavours not to lose hope as Carnegie secret of success embedded in the book offers them light. Andrew Carnegie, a steel magnate, was once the richest man in the world. It was he who instructed Napoleon Hill to conduct a study from which there will be “available a philosophy of success wherein individuals, who might not have the time and mental capacity to undertake research study could understand how individuals could accumulate wealth” and that birthed Napoleon Hill’s classic, Think & Grow Rich. Emenike said: “If you are disciplined enough to read and carry out the instructions provided, you are sure to achieve anything you set your eyes on. The book is also a simplified version of the classic book, ‘Think and Grow Rich’. This will help the readers know how to apply the principles to what they do. What I have done in this book is like stepping down the principles into the African environment. “Sometimes again, making money is not just about what you know; but about whom you know. You make money by interacting with people, so all those skills work together in the process of making money as mentioned in the book. “This book is trying to provide a strong timely push back and counter narrative to what is becoming a dominant narrative in terms of how to become rich. The principles here can be applied to success in any field of life.” The reviewer of the book and a former Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Prof Charles Soludo agreed that the book contains applicable universal principles that have helped thousands around the world accumulate wealth. Soludo said the word ‘rich’ in terms of material wealth is only used in the title as an illustration and ‘as a catchy case study’. “If you take a critical look at the title, ‘Think and Grow Rich’, its emphasis is on think and grow. This implies that one should grow rich in a systematic, organic and sustainable manner, rather than what I may call a lottery wealth or instant wealth through criminal activities,” he noted. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .