 [FILE PHOTO] The leader of Islamic Movement of  nigeria otherwise known as Shi”te, Ibrahim El-Zakzaky  A statement by the IMN Spokesman, Malam Ibrahim Musa, yesterday, was on the heels of denial of the speculation that the Shiites would embark on a violent protest in Abuja and other parts of the country from Monday (today) for the release of El-Zakzaky. Musa, who stated that the attention of the IMN had been drawn to certain posts being circulated on social media platforms that “from Monday, July 1, 2019, Abuja will witness violent Free Zakzaky mass protests,” said: “We hereby categorically and unequivocally dissociate ourselves from such unfounded and baseless threats of violence in pursuance of our demand for the immediate release of our revered leader, Sheikh Ibraheem Zakzaky, his wife Malama Zeenah Ibrahim and indeed all those the government is still detaining in relations to the infamous Zaria massacre of December 2015. “We have previously stated uncountable times and demonstrated it over the years that use of violence and issuance of threats are not in our character and have never been our modus operandi. This is not going to change. “Our peaceful Free Zakzaky campaigns over the past years since the government-sponsored genocide is enough attestation of our peaceful disposition even in the face of extreme provocation. “Sheikh Zakzaky has never preached violence, hence anyone seen threading the path of violence can never be one of us. “Be rest assured that we would continue with our peaceful mass protests and take all legitimate ways in seeking redress as we have done until we expose the atrocities of this government against peaceful citizens. We will never be deterred in the pursuit of our inalienable rights guaranteed in the constitution. “We are once again calling for the immediate release of our leader and his wife, whose health situations appear to be deteriorating very fast, especially in view of the reported poisoning they were subjected to in detention. Their health status is of paramount significance to us all and Buhari must be held responsible should anything untoward happen to either the Sheikh or his wife.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .