 [FILES] Armed bandits  A family member of the victim who pleaded anonymity said his children raised the alarm when they saw their father’s car with the doors opened and his phones abandoned. “His children had gone to the farm early in the morning and he promised to pick them in the afternoon before he would attend a family meeting. “The children waited endlessly for their father and when they did not see him, they decided to trek home. While on the way, they met their father’s car on the road with the four doors opened and his mobile phone abandoned. After searching for their father fruitlessly, they decided to head home and inform the family. “We have been praying for his safety, we are worried because he is a civil servant who also farms to augment whatever he is earning. We are appealing that his abductors release him unhurt. He has an aged mother and everybody is scared of breaking the news to her.” The source said the family has lodged a formal complaint at the Igarra police station. It was gathered that several vigilance groups in Igarra, Ojah, Ogugu and environs in Akoko-Edo and Owan East local government areas have been mobilized to comb the forests around the area.A member of the vigilance group said: “It was only the State Security Service that responded to our call immediately we heard of the incident and called them. We have mobilised our members and we are trying to track them down in the forests so they won’t move out to neighbouring states. When contacted, the Commissioner of Police, DanMallam Muhammed, confirmed the incident. He said the police are on the trail of the kidnappers, assuring that the victim would be rescued soon. Meanwhile, the Ogun State police command said it had arrested 41 suspected kidnappers after it rescued seven victims, including three workers of Lafia Hospital, Apata, Ibadan, on Saturday. The hospital workers had been kidnapped last Tuesday at Ogunmakin along Lagos-Ibadan expressway in Ogun while coming from Lagos.Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this in a statement sent to newsmen in Abeokuta yesterday. Oyeyemi said contrary to the report that three persons were abducted along the road last week Tuesday, he said four other persons were abducted by the hoodlums on Wednesday. He said further that, the command, having received the distress report about the abduction of the three staff, deployed its men in the area to rescue the victims. The PPRO said the operatives discovered the hideout of the abductors after the place was located within Fidiwo/Onigari forest along Lagos-Ibadan expressway. He said: “A team led by deputy commissioner of police in charge of operations embarked on a technical and forensic investigation as a result of which the kidnappers’ hideout was geo-located within Fidiwo/Onigari forest along Lagos-Ibadan expressway. “To complement the efforts of the command, the Inspector General of Police sent a police helicopter with which the area was properly surveyed. Having located the hoodlums’ hideout, the place was smoked through the chopper, which left the hoodlums with no other alternative than to hurriedly push out their victims from captivity. “It was there and then we discovered that apart from three persons abducted on July 23, another four persons were abducted on the 24th. In all, seven victims were successfully rescued on July 27, and they have all been reunited with their families.“One suspect who is strongly believed to have taken part in the kidnap saga was arrested and he is currently assisting the police in our investigation. To further rid the area of criminal activities, a comprehensive intelligence-based raid was carried out in all the surrounding forests as well as the vulnerable points in the area where about 40 suspects were arrested with all sort of illicit drugs.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .