National officer of NBA, Paul Usoro (SAN) The Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) in its upcoming 59th annual general conference aims at tackling issues of national interest to influence dialogue and promote knowledge sharing. The seven days conference with the theme ‘facing the future’ would be held at the convention center, Eko Hotel and Suites, Lagos. The event would take place from 23rd to 29th of August. Speaking at a press conference in Lagos, NBA president, Paul Usoro (SAN), said the theme spanned from the need to rightly position Nigeria from the legal perspective taking into cognizance the evolving world. According to Usoro, the conference will feature over 30 technical sessions and showcase sessions, where subject-matter experts, business leaders and renowned political leaders in various fields will lead conversations. The deliberations, he said would be aimed at envisioning the future of the legal profession within the context of a rapidly changing and evolving world, and anticipate the adaptive measures that practitioners will be required to embrace in light of those imminent changes. “The conference will address issues around the rule of law, independence of the judiciary, access to justice and protection of fundamental human rights, the economy and how to pilot the present to assure a better future. The theme “Facing the Future” is borne out of the pressing need to invest in a sustainable foundation for an optimistic future,” he added. Chairman, Technical Committee on Conference Planning (TCCP), Gbenga Oyebode, said the program would discuss topical issues and proffer solutions to them. He added that the inclusion of public sector would foster partnership with the expectation that the input would sharpen government polices and decisions, thereby impacting on citizens of the country. He explained that the conference is open to all members of the NBA and the public, noting that the registration has been encouraging, as they have had above 10,000 registrations already. On the speakers, Oyebode said; “The President of the International Bar Association (IBA); Mr Horacio Bernardes Neto will be attending the conference, where he will launch the IBA Working Group on Sexual Harassment and Bullying in the legal profession. There would be over 40 other speakers and guests at the conference.” He added that the conference has a section for everyone including people with physical challenges. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .