After the successful Skinny Girl in Transit ran for five seasons, Ndani TV started a new web series titled OGA!Pastor. Three episodes in, the online media platform has stopped the series and erased every trace of it from their website and YouTube page. Episodes of the Ndani original, written by Lani Aisida, premieres live every Friday by 3 pm, however, staunch followers of the show were left disappointed when the fourth episode didn’t air. With the story arc similar to the ensuing controversy that the Pastor of the Commonwealth of Zion Assembly, Biodun Fatoyinbo is embroiled in, some have said the sudden erasure of the web series and Pastor Fatoyinbo’s rape scandal could be connected. The episodes were deleted on Thursday after another person revealed in an interview that she was raped by Fatoyinbo. OGA Pastor was centered around a philandering cleric, Pastor Deoye Geshinde (Uche Arukwe), his wife, Olaitan. The Pastor of GGBC said at the beginning of the series confessed that he was sleeping with a woman that was not his wife. The story unraveled in Episode three when Pastor Gesh was shown in a Hotel room with another woman after he canceled a prior outing with his wife. The sudden termination of the series powered by Guaranty Trust Bank has hurt fans of the show as the next episode would have revealed more about the relationship between Pastor Gesh and his side chick. When the Guardian reached out the publicists of Guaranty Trust Bank, they said the bank tries to make Ndani as independent as possible. They promised to reach back with a statement on the issue. The controversy surrounding Fatoyinbo was further stoked after another lady alleged the celebrity pastor raped her. Celebrity photographer, Busola Dakolo, had accused the pastor of raping her twice as a minor in a four-part interview with YNaija. Fatoyinbo, who founded the church headquartered in Abuja with branches in Lagos, Port Harcourt, and Dubai, has taken “a leave of absence from the pulpit” to “submit to the concerns of spiritual mentors” while denying the accusations labeled against him. Dakolo, who accused the Pastor Fatoyinbo of rape has filed a formal complaint to the police. 