 Airtel office  Also, its operations in other Africa counties should support earnings if all things being equal,” he stated.  
    
From his perspective, President, Association of Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria (ATCON), Olusola Teniola, Chatting with The Guardian, ATCON said the Association had predicted that MTN listing would act as a catalyst for other telcos to follow suit. “Airtel’s move brings its shares onto both the LSE and NSE at the same time. This provides further dilution of heavyweights in the capital market, and provides an avenue for subscribers to purchase shares that will offer the market new sources of funds. It is a positive move by Airtel to consider offering its shares on the NSE, and I’m hopeful that with time other telcos seeking capital funds will exploit the opportunity presented.”
  
On the prospect of this development to the telecoms sector, Teniola noted that this will buoy telecom’s digital revolution, which requires new funding in addition to what the private sector has brought into the market.
  
This move, “further provides a potential funding base that will drive further CAPEX spending to achieve 70 per cent broadband penetration by 2024,” he stated.
  
While advising other operators to explore the NSE, he noted that the future is data, which is the new black gold, saying: “The fortunes of telcos will follow the past trends of the Oil & Gas industry that has benefitted greatly from the increase in shareholdership over many years. A capital intensive infrastructure project that usually characterises the telco eco-system is well-suited for a liquid capital market. Other members of ATCON can take a leaf out of MTN and Airtel.”
  
On the planned share price of N363, Teniola said it is not too much, “this represents just about a shade over a dollar or circa 73 pence. In the long run, this could rise to be a N1,000 share. The beauty is to buy low if you can. I see many high net worth individuals and financial institutions buying blocks of thousand of multiples as an alternative investment vehicle.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .