Lion King Cast, Photo. MovieWeb Disney’s live-action adaptation of The Lion King premieres this summer. The feature film directed by Jon Favreau brings treasured characters to the big screen in a completely new way. The film’s soundtrack, ‘The Lion King: Original Motion Picture Soundtrack’, was released July 11. The album includes a remake of a classic song, ‘Can You Feel the Love Tonight’, sung by Beyoncé, Donald Glover, Billy Eichner and Seth Rogen as well as a new single ‘Spirit’ sung by Beyonce. The tracklist includes 19 songs and some are instrumentals, while other songs feature members of the film’s cast. “Just hearing that music strikes you deeply,” Favreau said. “Even if you don’t know the film or stage show, there is a spiritual strength in it. But if you know the film, and if you grew up with this music—now it can suddenly and immediately evoke the story itself, as well as all the connected memories and emotions that you have from your own past experience with ‘The Lion King.’” Most of the songs on the newer version were featured in the 1994 animated movie, however the album features some new songs like ‘Never Too Late’ performed by Elton John and tracks by Lebo M. Mitchell Leib, the President of Music & Soundtracks for The Walt Disney Studios says, “The incredible musical talents who came together to contribute to this project are unparalleled. Jon Favreau’s deep love and instinct for musical collaboration inspired Hans Zimmer, Lebo M, Pharrell Williams, Elton John, Tim Rice, Beyoncé, Donald Glover and the entire music team to an awesome level of generosity, spirit and commitment, resulting in a powerful journey of song, production and performance.” ‘The Lion King: Original Motion Picture Soundtrack’ also features brand new recordings of the original songs written by Elton John and Tim Rice, scored by Oscar and Grammy-winning composer Hans Zimmer. African vocal and choir arrangements by Grammy-winning South African producer and composer Lebo M were also featured in the album. Oscar-nominated and Grammy-winning singer, songwriter and producer Pharrell Williams, produced five songs on the soundtrack. Music from the original animated film released in 1994 won two Academy Awards, four Grammy’s and two Golden Globes. The soundtrack reached No. 1 on the Billboard 200 album chart for 10 non-consecutive weeks and was certified Diamond by the RIAA for 10 million units sold. It’s safe to assume this new album will receive similar acclaim. Watch ‘Spirit’ via YouTube below;  