 Loan  Following the adoption of IFRS 9, about 10.9 per cent of the loan book in the banking industry, representing ₦1.5trillion are in Stage 3 (impaired), as at December 2018, according to the recently released banking industry report by Agusto & Co. 
   
The figure represents 15 per cent increase in non-performing loans (NPLs), when compared to the N1.3 trillion posted in the industry in 2017.Already, Federal Government’s bad debts company, Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON), has already warned that it will no longer buy such debts, even as it is still struggling to recover outstanding N5trillion unpaid banks loans before its wind-down by 2023.
   
Debts in Stage 3 are loans with objective evidence of impairment at the reporting date. In the previous period, Stage 3 loans can be assumed to be ‘individually impaired or non-performing loans (NPLs). They also comprise credit-impaired loans, including all loans that are 90 days’ overdue.  Furthermore, he noted that high NPLs will shrink the amount of loan banks will extend to the real sector and the small and medium enterprises (SMEs). “The ability to give fresh loans will be constrained. They will buy more Treasury Bills and FGN Bonds rather than give out loans, and this will not grow the economy. But the good side of it is that it will help banks to beef up their risk management system, and build up capacity.”Also reacting, a former banker and seasoned economist, Dr Boniface Chizea, said increasing NPLs in the banking industry is a reflection of the macroeconomic challenges bedevilling Nigeria’s economy. According to him, banks are currently faced with issues of non-repayment of loans due to the harsh operating environment.
“It is not alarming because the economy is not performing and the industries are not doing well. The industries are taking loans without repayment. It is a sign of what is happening in the economy. The economy is not developing at the same pace with the population. It cuts across every sector of the economy.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .