 Peru’s coach Ricardo Gareca (L) speaks next to midfielder Edison Flores during the official presser at Maracana stadium in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil on July 6, 2019 on the eve of the Copa America final football match against Brazil. (Photo by JUAN MABROMATA / AFP)  Peru are surprise finalists in a competition in which they last reached the title decider in 1975, not least because they were thrashed by Brazil 5-0 in the group stage. But back-to-back victories over record 15-time winners Uruguay and outgoing champions Chile have left Peru feeling confident going into Sunday’s match at Rio de Janeiro’s world-renowned Maracana stadium. “It’s an ideal time to be playing Brazil because we’ve just knocked out two excellent teams in Uruguay and Chile and that’s made us stronger,” said Argentine Gareca. The 61-year-old, who coached Sao Paulo’s Palmeiras in 2014, said one of the keys to Sunday’s match will be getting hold of the ball, no easy feat against a side that likes to keep it themselves. “It will be important to have possession, especially against Brazil. Keeping possession is one of their characteristics. So the more we can have, the better it will be,” he said. Argentina complained bitterly after their 2-0 semi-final defeat by Brazil that they had been denied two stonewall penalties after the referee, Ecuador’s Roddy Zambrano refused to consult VAR to check their claims. The Argentine football association cried favoritism but Gareca said he has no such concerns. “I’m not worried about anything, we’re preparing for the final and we trust the referees in every way,” he said. “Obviously VAR will improve in certain aspects over time.” While he said he’d analyzed all of Brazil’s matches, Gareca insisted he’d taken no hints from Venezuela and Paraguay, two sides who kept a clean sheet against the hosts. “Everyone has to come up with their own plans,” he said. As for the 5-0 defeat two weeks ago, forward Edison Flores dismissed its significance. “It’s another game, it’s a big final which were taking as such,” he said. “We’re only thinking about tomorrow, which will be a different game.” Peru have won the Copa America twice before, but this is their first final since 1975. Brazil are eight-time winners of the competition and claimed it in four out of five editions between 1997 and 2007.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .