Fasting for health photo evolve.mma.com Fasting is an activity that has existed for a very long time. People fast for different reasons, mostly, for spiritual reasons. Below are some health importance of fasting: When no food is consumed by your body, it turns to the fat deposits for energy. This releases chemicals from the fatty reserves and helps your body to cleanse and correct the imbalances in it. After fasting, the blood in your body is filled with better levels of endorphins, which makes your body to be at alert is perfect for good mental health. Studies have also provided evidence of healthy aging of the brain, which is attributed to calorie restriction and intermittent fasting. In addition, fasting has been in use for weight loss for a long time. If you want to lose weight, try fasting. Fasting triggers the liver enzymes and breaks fat and cholesterol into essential bile acids, which stimulates the metabolism and convert the surplus fat into heat. It also helps you avoid overeating as it regulates the hunger hormone levels – ghrelin. Regular fasting has also shown to improve eating patterns over time. It also promotes the healing process in the body. When food is no longer present in the stomach, the body focuses on other vital functions like metabolic activity and the immune system, rather than digestion which is not necessary until the next meal. Again, your body gets an opportunity to repair itself as a result of a slower metabolic rate, better defense mechanisms, and protein production during fasting. This improves mental well-being, clarity, improved blood circulation, and a feeling of rejuvenation. Fasting influences the regulation of glucose and cardiovascular health. In line with what has been mentioned, fasting can lower your blood pressure, body mass, triglycerides, and increase insulin sensitivity and levels of HDL (good) cholesterol. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment