Rivers state governor Nyesom Wike • Assembly moves to domesticate anti-violence bill
Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike has claimed that the state’s commissioner of police (CP), Usman Belel, was transferred because he refused to write false security report that the state was unsafe for election petition tribunal. Wike also accused his predecessor, Chibuike Amaechi, of scheming since 2015 to dislodge him as governor. The governor stated this at the Government House, Port Harcourt, during a thanksgiving service for the Supreme Court judgment that declared him qualified to contest the 2019 governorship election. Amaechi’s aide, Mr. Achinike Nwobodo, had lost a case he filed at the Federal High in 2018 seeking to disqualify Wike from contesting to he governorship ballot. “They told the commissioner of police to write a security report that here is not safe for the tribunal, but he refused and they transferred him. “The former minister of transportation said Rivers State is not safe, but he celebrated his birthday here. The letter former President Olusegun Obasanjo wrote was not because of Rivers. “All the companies are drilling oil and Nigeria is making money from Rivers. So Rivers is safe. I am here because it is the way God wants it. I will stay here till 2023, then another person will come. Stop painting Rivers State black,” he cautioned. Wike regretted that despite extending the olive branch to his political opponents, “they have continued unnecessary political battles that will not benefit the state.” Chaplain of the Government House Chapel, Ven. Sunday Opara, said in his sermon that “God’s will shall always prevail in the face of the treacherous plots against Wike.” Meanwhile, the Rivers House of Assembly has moved to domesticate the violence prohibition bill. Rivers State Violence Against Persons Prohibition Bill 2019, according to the lawmakers, is aimed at checkmating abuses on the people. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .