Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami The National Information Development Agency (NITDA) has concluded arrangement to increase support for youth skills acquisition in Nigeria through Information and Communication Technology (ICT). Dr. Isa Pantami, Director General of NITDA made this known on Monday in Abuja, during the National Youth Skills Conference organised by Push Africa, a youth focused NGO. Pantami said that the agency, which was established in 2001 to regulate ICT practises in Nigeria, was also implementing a roadmap aimed at transforming Nigeria into a knowledge based economy. His address was delivered by Mr Yahuza Ahmed from Cyber Security Department of NITDA. “NITDA was established in 2001, with the mandate to regulate ICT practises in Nigeria. “We have a specialised ICT programme for youths, women and other social groups as a means of building their capacity to make them self reliant. “We design and deliver specialised training tailored towards individual needs and fund post-event mentorship to empower the trainees and enable them to establish their own businesses,” he said. According to him, NITDA have just concluded a train-the-trainer programme for over 100 youths in Ekiti State University. “They were taught on skills ranging from digital literacy, website development, computer systems assembly and troubleshooting,” he said. Ms Doris Egneramen, Founder of Push Africa, said that the organisation sought to impact the African continent through the empowerment of the vulnerable group. She said that her organisation was committed to adding value by targeting women and youth with economic empowerment. “Push Africa is a social enterprise that seeks to impact the African continent through economic empowerment for the pro-poor and low income earners, reducing vulnerability of women and youths to social and health challenges. “Nigeria and most of Africa have the most youthful population in the world. The continent also has the highest number of vulnerable people. “We are committed to adding value by targeting women and youth with economic empowerment, entrepreneurship, and leadership development interventions,” she said. She said that the organisation was currently implementing a skills acquisition programme to empower women and young people with viable skills. Also represented at the event are the Central Bank of Nigeria, Small and Medium Enterprises of Nigeria, Bank of Industry, Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry, among other organisations. Also part of the programme was award of micro credits to 10 lucky Nigerian Micro, Small and Medium Scale Enterprise (MSMEs) by Safe Haven Microfinance Bank. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that July 15 is designated as World Youth Skills Day by the United Nations. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .