 Lime is a small, round, green-color hybrid citrus fruit. It has numerous health benefits . Also, due to its acidic sour juice and unique aroma, the lime fruit is widely used in various cuisines to accent flavour. Below are some of the benefits of Lime: Limes contain vitamin C and antioxidants. These are ingredients present in many commercial skin products. When consumed with water, the natural ingredients in the lime juice can help improve the appearance of aging skin. Nutritionists often recommend drinking a glass of water with a meal to help prevent overeating. The citric acid found in lime juice helps boost a person’s metabolism, helping them burn more calories and store less fat. It has been advised that people who do not drink enough water should add a squeeze of lime to enhance the flavour, which may encourage them to drink more water. The vitamin C and the antioxidants in lime  contained in limes provide support to the body’s immune system. When drunk regularly, lime water might help prevent and shorten the lifespan of colds and cases of flu. Limes contain high levels of magnesium and potassium. These elements help support the overall health of the heart. In particular, potassium can improve blood flow and reduce blood pressure. Anemia is a blood disorder often caused by an iron deficiency. Limes don’t contain much iron, but because they’re high in vitamin C, they can help increase the amount of iron the body can absorb. The d-limonene found in citrus fruits have multiple health benefits and one of them is cancer prevention. Limes also contain a flavonoid called naringenin, which medical researchers have agreed to have  strong cancer-preventing properties. The flavonoid-rich oil that is extracted from limes is extensively used in anti-congestive medicines such as balms, vaporizers, and inhalers due to the presence of kaempferol. Just scratching the peel of lime and inhaling it gives immediate relief from nasal congestion and nausea. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment    