Players and officials of the Super Eagles are smiling as their purses keep swelling courtesy of the dignitaries, who watched them demolish Cameroon in Alexandria on Saturday. For the victory against Cameroon, the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) paid the players $12, 500 each, but the boys got much more than that from the dignitaries, including Captain Hosea Okunbor, who gave the team $20,000 per player. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu showered the players with $5,000 each, while the President of AITEO Group, NFF’s Optimum Partner, Mr. Benedict Peters weighed in with the sum of $75,000 for the entire team for the three goals scored, at $25,000 per goal as he promised before the match.  Meanwhile, the NFF has commended the country’s top dignitaries who were in Alexandria, Egypt on Saturday and cheered the Super Eagles to victory over Cameroon in an interesting AFCON 2019 Round of 16 clash.
 
Acting President of the NFF, Seyi Akinwunmi listed the top officials and said the Federation was immensely grateful to them not only for their presence but also for their passion in cheering and believing in the Super Eagles to overcome even when the team fell behind in the game.
 
“We want to specially thank the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila; the Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Babatunde Sanwo-Olu; the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Mr. Godwin Emefiele and; Captain Hosea Wells Okunbor, a staunch financier and supporter of the Super Eagles.
 
“These distinguished personalities not only showed up at the Alexandria Stadium, they also oozed passion and love for the game of football and for our dear nation. They were so much involved and always believed the Super Eagles would carry the day.”
 
Three-time champions, Nigeria put the Cup holders to the sword with two quick goals in the second half that took the scoreline to 3-2 after the Lions topped the first half 2-1 also with two quick goals late in the half. Nigeria will take on South Africa in a much–anticipated quarterfinal duel at the 75,000–capacity Cairo International Stadium on Wednesday night. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .