Apapa Ports The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), and the Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC), have reviewed their synergy to halt smuggling of Tramadol and other illicit drugs into the country. The NDLEA Director in charge of seaports, Omolade Faboyede, during a visit to the headquarters of the NSC in Lagos, said the large amount of drugs that come through the seaports undermine national security as well as negatively affected individuals, families and communities. “The milligrammes of Tramadol allowed are between 50mg and 100mg per dosage, but what is being imported into the country is 225mg per dosage. It is like a business now in Nigeria,” and urged stakeholders operating at the seaports to collaborate and stop the importation of illicit drugs. According to Faboyede, a drink called Skrushy or Chapman popularly consumed by Nigerian youths, is usually a combination of Benylin with Codeine, Cannabis, Blackcurrant, Cucumber, and Ethanol, noting that consumption of the mixture by the youth is dangerous to their health. Executive Secretary of NSC, Hassan Bello, commended the efforts of the NDLEA, especially, in the areas of arresting and prosecuting smugglers of drugs. Bello, who was represented by the Director, Legal Services of the Council, Samuel Vongtau, said the creation of the seaport operation is a welcome idea and strategic planning by the NDLEA, noting that with the taking-off of the office, the operations of the agency would be felt more by Nigerians. He said: “We consider the NDLEA as one of our strategic partners in the improvement of the port sector now that the issue of drugs abuse is really ravaging our society. “Some of our youths are no longer productive; a lot of them have rendered themselves useless and that is affecting the economy of the nation. “The Nigerian Shippers’ Council is ready to collaborate with you in the course of your operations at the ports. We have many areas that we can collaborate such as Port Steering Committee which is working toward bringing efficiency and transparency at out ports.” Bello also said the Council was about to implement the Cargo Tracking Note (CTN), adding that when operational, it will involve an open declaration of cargoes at the port of origin to ascertain their contents,which he said will simplify NDLEA’s operations at the ports. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .