 Commissioner and Chief Executive Officer of Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB), Akin Olateru.  It is the first time the Bureau will be having her own condition of service since it was established as an autonomous agency 12 years ago. The bureau was established via the Civil Aviation Act 2006 but became operational in 2007. Before then, it was a department in the then Federal Ministry of Aviation. Before now the agency had been using the condition of service of a sister agency while her struggles to have her own for several years had been unsuccessful. The Commissioner and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of AIB, Akin Olateru, thanked the Head of Civil Service, the Ministry of Transportation, the unions and the staff of AIB for the landmark achievement and emphasised that the AIB management was committed to improving the welfare of the entire staff. “This is one of the proofs that we value our staff and are committed to a robust welfare package for them. Since we came onboard, we have relentlessly been pursuing accelerated capacity development, provision of conducive environment for working and a world standard working conditions for our staff. “This is very important for the entire staff of the Bureau towards improving their welfare and a motivation in discharging their best at their various duties to enhance air safety,” Olateru said. The Commissioner charged the staff to reciprocate the gesture by redoubling their efforts in discharging their duties and responsibilities and also support the management in its bid to repositioning the bureau to meet the global standards in accident investigation. The leadership of the local chapters of the Air Transport Services Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (ATSSSAN) and National Association of Aircraft Pilots and Engineers (NAAPE) expressed gratitude to the management for its commendable support in realising the long awaited Staff Conditions of Service. They remarked that it was indeed a landmark achievement for this administration and the entire staff of the Bureau.AIB is the Federal government agency charged with the responsibility of investigating air accidents and serious incidents in Nigeria and anywhere it is invited with a view to preventing future reoccurrence. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .