 Yacoba Amuah, Head, Sales and Strategy (left); Louis-Pius Dushie, Head of Finance & Strategy; Olufemi Muraino, Executive Director and Gilbert Tim Dovie, Project Manager, Infrastructure Business all of Inlaks at the Ghana Information Technology and Telecoms Awards (GITTA) held in Accra, Ghana recently.  Receiving the award, Femi Muraino, executive director, Inlaks, noted that the organization is geared towards providing world-class banking solutions that impact the banking industry in the Sub-Saharan region. “Technology will continue to progress and there will be new innovations to transform the society and the way we do business. It is clear that a lot of things have changed because now with your mobile phone you can control all your equipment at home irrespective of your location. Also, services rendered by businesses and government agencies are being automated rapidly and with artificial intelligence, results are getting better. Our focus at Inlaks, he continued, is to ensure that the society gets better and the labour market gets the value at the end of the day. People need to up their skills irrespective of their profession, do something different and must have an idea of current happenings. One needs to also have an open mind and be prepared for the coming disruptions”. Also speaking at the event, Dr. Mahamudu  Bawumia, vice president, Ghana,  who served as the special guest of honour, was also adjudged the Digital Leader of the Year 2019. In his address, the Vice President lauded the collaborative role the private sector has played in the successful rollout of several programmes in the government’s digitization agenda. “The digitalization process that we have embarked on in the past two and half years has however been cost-effective. Our payment systems have continued to evolve to meet the developmental needs of the country. This change is driven by economic, financial, public policy practice as well as a growing local ICT regime and global trends in the payment systems development.” GIITA awards is an annual ceremony that honours organizations and individuals who have proven to be beacons of innovation and excellence in the telecommunications and Information Technology sector in Ghana. Awardees are prominent providers of simplified business solutions which aid integration of systems technologies and processes focused on next generation improvements and the development of a thriving global marketplace.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .