Two Tiv women have been reported killed by suspected herdsmen in Ibuam Village of Adudu in Obi Local Council of Nasarawa State. The Tiv youths’ president, Peter Ahemba, who spoke with The Guardian, in Lafia, said that the suspects invaded the village at midnight of Wednesday shooting sporadically and leaving two women dead and several others wounded with one person still missing. According Ahemba, who lamented that the attack was unprovoked, said one of the victims, a woman, is still missing, as her whereabouts could not be verified at the time of filing this report. However, all efforts to get police confirmation failed as the police spokesperson did not pick his calls. Meanwhile, the Catholic Bishop of Jalingo Diocese, Most Rev. Charles Hammawa, has appealed to the Tiv and Jukun to bury their hatchets by putting an end to the ongoing killings and destruction of property. The cleric, who made the passionate appeal yesterday during a peace meeting he convened between the stakeholders of the two warring ethnic groups held at St. Charles Boromeo Pastoral Centre in Jalingo, expressed displeasure that despite several moves by the government and other organisations to resolve the impasses, both groups have continued to kill each other. He pleaded with them to sheathe their sword and embrace peace for the growth of the state and their communities. “I am on my knees begging you. I beg you in the name of God to stop the killings. The time for peace is now, if we say till later, it might be too late. “As a people, we cannot live in isolation. We need one another. So, let’s forgive one another, accept one another and ensure justice for all for peace and prosperity of Taraba. “ We must not give up until peace is achieved. These persistent crises in the history of Taraba have made us retrogress. “We must, therefore, move away from this destructive path to avert the dangerous consequences of continuous killings and destruction.” Visibly elated, stakeholders from the two aforementioned groups assured the bishop of their readiness to cease hostilities in the interest of peace. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .