 CampsBay Media and The Guardian are collaborating to host the inaugural Africa Digital Sports Conference  The Africa Digital SportsConference (ADSCon) is an initiative of CampsBayMedia created uniquely to help develop and enhance the fortunes of African sport businesses through digital media technology. The event with the theme,‘Monetising Sports in digital Era,’ will bring together over 300 African sports, technology and media leaders to network and discover new opportunities in the changing digital technology space and its benefits for the evolving sports industry. Lolade Adewuyi, Chief strategist at CampsBayMedia and convener of the Africa Digital SportsConference, said “Sport businesses in developed climes are already mining the opportunities that abound in using digital platforms to reach their fans directly while increasing revenue. At CampsBay Media, we believe African businesses can do the same. The Africa DigitalSports Conference will help sports businesses and organisations understand how to take advantage of available digital opportunities for growth.” The two-day event will feature panel discussions, masterclasses, interviews, and exhibitions. Discussions will range from trends such as new digital sports tech companies competing for sports rights with traditional broadcasters, the growth of over-the-top (OTT) technologies helping sports rights owners reach their fans directly and the growth of digital technologies creating a multi-billion dollar media and entertainment industry. Speaking on the involvement of The Guardian, Lolade Nwanze, Head of Operations at Guardian Digital said: “Tonot recognize the power and possibilities available with digital media is to deny oneself of a place in the future. the Guardian, we are championing this transformation throughout Africa and continue to support vehicles like the ADSCon, which can bring tangible change to the whole sports economy of the continent.” Expected participants at the conference include; sports federations, brands, and organisations actively involved in sports sponsorship and development, sports media professionals, rights owners, content creators, media executives, telecommunication executives, app developers, and internet service providers. And registration has commenced on the Africa DigitalSports Conference website,www.africadigitalsports.com/register  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .