The Institute of Chartered Account of Nigeria (ICAN), Kano/Jigawa district Thursday launched their ‘Catch them young’ campaign in 20 public secondary schools in Kano State. The campaign which was unveiled at the famous Runfa College, was part of ICAN’s measures to build the choice of professional accounting career in the minds of younger generation right from secondary schools. Besides, the catch them young initiative is designed with special accounting examination courses for secondary school’s leavers that will prepare them for professional ICAN exams. Speaking at the event, Chairman of ICAN Kano/Jigawa district, Kadir Mohammad explained that the initiative was introduced to encourage enrollment of O’level graduate in Accounting Technician Scheme West African (ATSWA). According to Mohammad, ATSWA program which was initiated to produce middle level accounting technician within West Africa, provide opportunity for applicants with five credit in O’ level, including English and Mathematics, to enrol. Against the conventional system, Mohammad disclosed that candidates who passed the ATSWA examination, are equivalent to university or polytechnic graduates of accounting. He added that people in that category are only required to pass through the professional qualification, the last stage before qualify as Chartered accountant. “this sensitization is designed to encourage students of secondary schools to study hard and become professional in the field of accounting. We want to clear the  doubt that seems, studying and becoming a Chartered accountant is difficult. “Again, we have come with good news that the students can actually start the journey of becoming  chartered accountants immediately after they completed their secondary school without passing through universities or polytechnics. “ICAN has introduced Accounting Technician Scheme West Africa (ATSWA). This program only required candidates to pass their five O’level credits including English and Mathematics. As soon as you pass the exams, you are now equivalent to graduates and you can actually practice as accounting technician. At that stage, you have passed basic and skill stages. You only need professional exams to go and you are chartered accountant”. Manager, ICAN Liaison Office in Kano, Umaru Abdullahi Amo revealed that the program will equally serve to bridge wide gap between ICAN membership with southern part of the country. Umaru explained that the district is also given out scholarship to best graduating students in any field to enrol for ICAN examinations. He added that the Kano/Jigawa district has produced over 400 Chartered accountant in the last four years through a scholarship initiative ICAN established with New Nigeria Development Company. Umar stressed that in the last five years, ICAN candidates have been enjoying tuition free lectures at the study center, as part of measures to encourage and produce future Chartered accountants in the district.4  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .