Would you like to go to a place where you can observe and explore the wild in its raw, untouched state? Grab your passport, your bag and let’s go to Kafue National Park in Zambia! Kafue National Park is the oldest and largest park in the East African country of Zambia. The park covers a massive area of about 22,400 square kilometers! This makes Kafue the second largest park in Africa. It is known for its abundant wildlife and the Kafue River (from which the park got its name), running north to south through the park. Puku in the Busanga swamps, Kafue National Park – Photo: Audley Travels Kafue is not for the fainthearted. The park is home to of a large number and range of wildlife – from the predators to the prey. You are likely to come across lions, cheetahs, leopards, wild dogs, spotted hyenas, red lechwe and puku antelope, kudus, bushbucks, elands, reedbucks, duikers, grysboks and defassa waterbucks. The Kafue River and its tributaries themselves are home to pods of hippopotami and a few of the largest crocodiles in southern Africa. Elephants are commonly seen particularly along the Kafue River and around Lake Itezhi-tezhi. Do you love to watch birds? You’re in for luck. A birders paradise, the Kafue hosts 500 recorded species, some notable ticks are Pel’s Fishing Owl, Black-cheeked Lovebird, Chaplin’s Barbet (Zambia’s only endemic bird), Wattled and Crowned Crane, African Fin-foot, Bohm’s Bee-eaters and many more. Boat Safari In Kafue National Park – Photo: Ampersand Travel You can engage in any of these exciting activities at Kafue: Game drives, guided walking safaris and night drives (to see the elusive of leopards). Motorboat safaris and canoe trips (to see hippos and crocodiles in Kafue’s rivers) and bird-watching. The park is accessible by road and by plane (yes, it boast of many airstrips.) And accommodation ranges from luxury safari lodges to remote tented camps It would interest you to know that the park remains little-known and largely unexplored with vast tracts of its virgin bush still untouched. Kafue National Park would leave you with many memorable adventures.