Nollywood actress, Genevieve Nnaji is not slowing down in cementing her name in the sands of time as one of the greatest actresses to come out of Africa. The multitalented mother one recently wowed the world with her directorial debut film, “Lionheart” that became the first African film to be acquired by American film streaming platform, Netflix. Farming Theatrical poster | Photo – Lionsgate Not resting on her oars on that success, Nnaji is set to make it to the big screen this year alongside stars like Kate Beckinsale and Gugu Mbatha-Raw, in the upcoming film, Farming. The filming of Farming took place around locations in London and Nigeria back in 2017. The Nigerian star will be acting alongside British-Nigerian actor, Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje who has starred in successful films like OZ, Game of Thrones and Suicide Squad. Akinnuoye-Agbaje back in 2017 revealed that he was working on an autobiographical film. The film he disclosed would chronicle his childhood in the UK after being offered up to be fostered by a white working-class family. L-R, Damson Idris, Kate Beckinsale, Adewale Akinnouye-Agbaje and Gugu Mbatha-Raw at the 2018 Toronto International Film Festival Photo – Getty Images Farming also stars another British actor of Nigerian descent, Damson Idris. Idris who has starred in film roles in Snowfall and Black Mirror plays a fictional character based on Adewale called Enitan. Nnaji on her part plays alongside Adewale playing his Nigerian student parents who farm him off to an abusive foster mother played by Kate Beckinsale known for roles in Underworld and Van Helsing. Gugu Mbatha-Raw from Black Mirror and A Wrinkle in Time will also play the supporting character of the teacher who helps Enitan find his way to redemption. The trailer of the film which is set for release in October has now been released and sees the film addressing issues like racism and identity. Check out the trailer below.  Nnaji in times past has been described by media mogul, Oprah Winfrey as the Julia Roberts of Africa. Nnaji in February 2019, sparked rumours that she may have a partnership in the works with Dreamworks studios when she posted a picture of herself in Dreamworks studios (the producers of Shrek, Kung Fu Panda, Green Book, Madagascar among others) with the quote “Control the things you can within your space.”