 [FILES] Kidnap.<br />PHOTO: google.com/search  “Our vehicle was not hit with the bullet because we were not trying to outsmart them. At first, I thought it was a checkpoint, but I was wrong. We were dragged from the vehicle and led to the forest. We trekked for over six hours until we got to a place that was provided for us to pass the night.” Samson added that the victims were asked about their tribe and occupation after which a call was made to their relatives for a ransom of N10 million each. “Those that refused to call their family were mercilessly beaten to stupor. I was dehydrated and very sick. So, I asked to drink water from a pool of water I saw on the floor. God showed me mercy, they told me the water was not clean for me to drink. Later, I was given a jar of palm wine to drink. That was when I knew we could be released as the boss had already taken interest in me. He also offered me a stick of St. Moritz cigarettes. I quickly collected it from him and smoked it.” The civil servant noted that in the morning, calls were made to some people. “We don’t know what was going on but we continued praying that things would work out fine. The leader of the group told me to take off my suit and also collected my phone. By 10:25 a.m. he picked about six of us and pointed to a bush and asked us to go straight and turn right after some distance. After a long-distance, we hit the main road. At about the same time, we saw operatives of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad who drove us to Edo State police station, where we met the Commissioner of Police. I still don’t understand how we got freed without any ransom to date.” Meanwhile, the gunmen that killed a businessman and abducted his daughter-in-law in Kebbi State, have demanded N100 million ransom from the family. The gunmen had on Sunday morning killed a businessman in Gulma town of Kebbi, Alhaji Yusuf Garkar-Bore, and abducted his daughter-in-law, Mrs. Aisha Yusuf. A member of the family who did not want his name mentioned told newsmen yesterday that the gunmen have demanded N100 million ransom from the family. He said: “They have called us and demanded that the ransom of N100 million must be paid for the woman to be released. We told them we don’t have such kind of money and reminded them that when they invaded our house, they took away a bag that contained N1 million after killing our breadwinner.” The Police Public Relations Officer of the state command, DSP Nafiu Abubakar, however newsmen that they are not aware of the ransom demand. He added that concerted efforts were on to secure the release of the abducted woman. In another development, the Nasarawa State police command has arrested four persons suspected to be kidnappers of the village head of Hunki, Alhaji Umaru Jibrin, in Awe Local Government Area of the state. Three other suspected kidnappers and an armed robbery suspect were arrested in different locations of the state. Parading the suspected criminals at the state police command headquarters in Lafia, the Commissioner of Police, Bola Longe, gave names of the persons who allegedly kidnapped the Gunki village head to include Musa Adamu, aged 26, Umaru Muhammed, 28, Nuhu Muhammed, 38 and Hassan Zakaria, 20. The police commissioner added that the suspected kidnappers of the Gunki village head were arrested with 11 SIM cards of different networks recovered from them as exhibits. The village head, Umaru Jibrin, narrated to journalists that he was able to identify one of his kidnappers at an eatery in Awe town where one of the kidnappers was caught by residents. He said: “I identified one of those who kidnapped me at an eatery when he came to eat from the same place I was also eating. However, when he arrived and noticed me at the eatery, he immediately attempted to disappear while his food was being served. “It was then I recollected that he was one of those that kidnapped me and quickly alerted those within the vicinity and he was caught. The kidnappers had released me from their den after my relations managed to raise N600,000 as ransom.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .