Delta Airlines Customers can expect to be impressed on board Delta’s international routes starting this November when the airline debuts its industry-leading main cabin experience. Free welcome aboard cocktails, featuring Bellinis to start, hot towel service and mix-and-match options for premium appetizers and larger entrees, are just a few of the ways Delta is differentiating its international Main Cabin service. Delta’s S.V.P. – In-Flight Service, Allison Ausband, said the new experience is about investing in every single customer, who chooses Delta, no matter where they sit on the plane. “The thoughtful touches we’re investing in throughout the new main cabin experience were designed by flight attendants with one goal in mind: delivering an exceptional experience that our customers will rave about and one that our team, the best in the business, is proud to deliver.” Designed to delight and create wow moments that feel like dining in your favorite splurge restaurant, Delta’s reinvented main cabin experience has been met with high marks – with increased customer satisfaction scores on the more than 700 flights it’s been tested on between Portland and Tokyo (NRT) over the past year. The experience launching in November isn’t the same service Delta started testing more than a year ago. Rigorous reviews of the service through nearly 14,000 hours of flight time, information from over 1,800 customer surveys, robust crew feedback and input from a design team made up of 24 flight attendants resulted in a number of changes to perfect the innovative service for Delta’s international flights. A New York-based flight attendant and member of the design team behind the new experience, Michael Miller, said with this service, at the end of the flight, “I know I’ve made a difference in the customer’s journey”. “I know I’ve had the opportunity to not only offer an exceptional onboard experience, but also to engage with customers and create special moments for them.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .