 Switzerland’s Roger Federer (R) shakes hands and embraces Spain’s Rafael Nadal (L) after Federer won their men’s singles semi-final match on day 11 of the 2019 Wimbledon Championships at The All England Lawn Tennis Club in Wimbledon, southwest London, on July 12, 2019. (Photo by Adrian DENNIS / POOL / AFP)  The 37-year-old eight-time champion won 7-6 (7/3), 1-6, 6-3, 6-4 in the pair’s 40th career meeting to move into his 31st Grand Slam final where he will face defending champion Novak Djokovic. Top seed and four-time winner Djokovic reached his sixth Wimbledon final, and 25th at the majors, with a nervy 6-2, 4-6, 6-3, 6-2 triumph over Spain’s 23rd seed Roberto Bautista Agut. Federer is the third-oldest man ever to play in a Grand Slam final after 39-year-old Ken Rosewall featured in the 1974 Wimbledon and US Open finals. However, he will have his work cut out on Sunday if he is to secure a 21st major title as he trails 15-time Slam winner Djokovic 25-22 in career meetings. Friday’s semi-final was never likely to match the knife-edge theatrics of 2008 final although Federer needed five match points to secure victory. Serbia’s Novak Djokovic celebrates after winning a game against Spain’s Roberto Bautista Agut during their men’s singles semi-final match on day 11 of the 2019 Wimbledon Championships at The All England Lawn Tennis Club in Wimbledon, southwest London, on July 12, 2019. (Photo by CARL RECINE / POOL / AFP)  In a tight 51-minute opener, Nadal managed to save the only breakpoint in the eighth game before surrendering the advantage of an early mini-break in the tie-breaker which Federer claimed thanks to five points in a row. The Spaniard finally carved out the first break of the semi-final in the fourth game of the second set, backing it up with a hold for 4-1. Nadal then broke again for 5-1 as Federer suffered a sudden and severe power outage with the two-time champion comfortable leveling the contest. Federer, the oldest semi-finalist in a Grand Slam semi-final since Jimmy Connors at the 1991 US Open, broke Nadal for the first time in the fourth game of the third set. He then fought off three break points for a key 4-1 lead, coming out on top in a 23-shot rally and then a 25-stroke exchange. There was no respite for Nadal, an 18-time Slam winner, who slipped a break down at 2-1 in the fourth. Nadal saved two match points in the ninth game and two more in the 10th but a loose return sealed his fate. Federer finished with 14 aces and 51 winners. – Djokovic in the sixth final –
Djokovic, meanwhile, will be looking to add another Wimbledon title to the Australian and US Open crowns he already holds. “This has been a remarkable tournament for me and to be in another final is a dream come true,” said the top seed. “I had to dig deep, Roberto was playing his first semi-final at a Grand Slam and he was not really overwhelmed. “It was a really close opening four to five games of the third set that could have gone either way — thankfully it went mine.” Djokovic swept through the first set with breaks in the second and eighth games. It seemed certain that Djokovic was going to spend a lot less time on the court in this semi-final compared to 12 months ago when he needed five sets and five hours and 15 minutes to beat Nadal. However, Bautista Agut, who had already defeated the Serb twice this year, eventually settled and broke for 2-1 in the second set. Djokovic fought off two breakpoints, via a 23-shot rally, in the fifth game. But the 31-year-old Bautista Agut held his nerve to eventually level the semi-final at 6-4 off a fortuitous net cord. Djokovic, increasingly irritated by a restless crowd, broke for 4-2 in the third set and held for 5-2 off the back of a lung-busting 45-shot rally. The set was secured, ironically off another net cord which fell this time in the Serb’s favour. Bautista Agut, who had planned to be in Ibiza this week for his stag party, fought off break points in the opening game of the fourth set. But Djokovic was relentless and tightened his grip, breaking twice for a 4-1 lead, and eventually claimed victory on a fifth match point.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .