 Musa Bility  The Liberian, it was, who first raised the alarm over the dictatorial tendencies of CAF President, Ahmad Ahmad, with his petition over CAF’s finances jolting many of the top officials of the continental football boy, yesterday expressed his dismay at the level the rot in CAF has reached. But he is proud that he is no longer the lone voice in the CAF wilderness. Reacting to the recent decision by Ahmad to remove CAF’s former first Vice President, Amaju Pinnick, from his position, Bility yesterday urged Nigerians to be proud of the NFF president, saying it is better that Pinnick is no longer with the ‘wolves’ in CAF. Bility described Pinnick as a very honest administrator, who has been selfless in his service as a CAF top-shot and has taken Nigeria to very great heights in football administration. “The worst decision ever made by CAF president, Ahmad was not to have kept Amaju as the first vice president. Amaju is a symbol of unity and a rallying point whenever there was any issue amongst members, only God knows what will happen now, but Nigerians should be proud of this man, who has brought greatness to Nigeria,” he stated. Bility equally shed more light on the recent happenings in CAF and the CAF-FIFA collaboration, stating that the apex football body in Africa requires a very thorough forensic audit and even with the body enmeshed in serious financial scandals, Pinnick’s name has never been mentioned at all. “A very thorough forensic audit has to be conducted to cleanse CAF and I can boldly say that Pinnick is a man with integrity and has never been involved in any form of corruption, whether financial or material,” he added. At the CAF 41st General Assembly held in Cairo last Thursday, Pinnick was not proposed for a return as CAF first vice president by CAF president, Ahmad, who upgraded D.R. Congo’s Constant Omari to that position. Pinnick, however, remains a member of the Organising Committee for FIFA competitions.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .