Frank Lampard. PHOTO: GETTYIMAGES Chelsea have confirmed Frank Lampard as the club’s new manager after the Blues agreed a deal with the former midfielder. Lampard signed a three-year deal to return to the Stamford Bridge to succeed Maurizio Sarri, who departed the club after a lone season in charge. “I am immensely proud to be returning to Chelsea as head coach. Everyone knows my love for this club and the history we have shared, however, my sole focus is on the job in hand and preparing for the season ahead,” Lampard told Chelsea FC. “I am here to work hard, bring further success to the club and I cannot wait to get started,” he added. Chelsea director Marina Granovskaia during the signing said that it is a “great pleasure” to welcome Lampard back to Chelsea as head coach. “Frank possesses fantastic knowledge and understanding of the club and last season, he demonstrated he is one of the most talented young coaches in the game,” he said. Lampard, Chelsea’s all-time scorer, spent 13 years as a player in west London, scoring 211 goals in 649 games. He won three Premier League titles, the Champions League, four FA Cups, two League Cups and the Europa League while also finishing second to Ballon d’Or winner Ronaldinho in 2005. Lampard will bring staff from Derby with him, with ex-Blues midfielder Jody Morris expected to join as his assistant manager after working with him at the Rams. Former Blues coach Chris Jones will also return, while head of performance analysis Steve Rands is believed to be another of the six to eight backroom staff that have spoken to the west London side. Chelsea’s Development Squad manager, Joe Edwards, will also be promoted in line with Lampard’s arrival, with the highly rated young coach boasting a close relationship with Morris from his time in the academy. Lampard will now lead Chelsea into seven pre-season matches in Dublin, Japan, Germany and Austria before opening the season against Manchester United at Old Trafford on August 11. He will not be able to new signings perhaps for the next two transfer windows due to a two-window transfer ban imposed by FIFA. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .