 Seyi Makinde  Lanlehin had announced his withdrawal from a coalition with Makinde of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) over what he described as non-compliance with the rules of engagement. A statement issued by Special Adviser to the Governor on Strategy and Political Matters, Babatunde Oduyoye, maintained that Makinde could not be accused of non-compliance by any party, because he had lived up to his promises to the coalition and in some cases “even bending backwards to accommodate all interests.” He said the governor has lived up to his promise not only to Lanlehin, but also to all members of the coalition, saying the committee reached an accord, which was signed by all parties and brought before the governor. He added that the agreement contained a template for sharing of positions in government, as well as membership of boards and government departments and agencies, noting that procedures have commenced to actualise the template. Oduyoye said: “We received Lanlehin’s claim that he has withdrawn from the coalition birthed by political parties ahead of the March 9, 2019 governorship election in Oyo State with shock. “It is more shocking to read Lanlehin’s allegation that his decision was hinged on Governor Makinde’s infidelity to the coalition’s agreement. “The allegation is a clear affront on the governor’s sincerity and his magnanimous disposition in handling discussions about the coalition. His claim untrue, unjustifiable and inconsistent with reality.” Besides, the state chapter of the Nigerian Union of Pensioners (NUP) has asked Governor Makinde to declare a state of emergency on pension matters by investigating the N62.5 billion owed by Governor Abiola Ajimobi-led administration from eight to 56 months. The union made the call in Ibadan, during a solidarity rally to the governor’s office where they lamented that Oyo State Pensioners, especially retired Primary school teachers have become endangered species due unpaid pensions and gratuities. They therefore, asked Makinde to declare a state of emergency on the state pension scheme, noting that the action was necessary as the state was peopled with intellectual people who must not be deprived of their entitlements, as and when due. State Secretary of the union, Olusegun Abatan, lamented that the governor only signed payment of May, 2018 pension a few day ago days ago, while over 17 arrears were still unpaid. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .