Ghanaian music star,  Shatta Wale who is one of the African artistes to get a feature on the Lion King inspired album, “The Lion King: The Gift” curated by Beyonce is still basking in the glory of the much-talked-about feature. The dancehall artiste while speaking during an interview has compared his voice on the track, “Already” to that of multiple Grammy award-winning songstress, Celine Dion. According to him, his feature on the track has not only presented him with the opportunity for more international projects but he has also been receiving commendations about his voice. On having a silky voice like Celine Dion, Shatta Wale said; “A lot of producers around the world have contacted me with most saying that they like my voice. It was after that I listened to my voice well and I realized that I sound like Celine Dion.” We reported earlier that Shatta Wale slammed fellow Ghanaian music star, Sarkodie after the former congratulated him on the feature. Sarkodie in a Twitter post had shared a congratulatory message by writing: “Welcome home Queen @Beyonce officially Big shouts @shattawalegh !!! And all our brothers and sisters on there … Big One for the culture.” Canadian singer Celine Dion (AFP PHOTO DDP/ MICHAEL GOTTSCHALK) However, in his reaction to the tweet, Shatta Wale tagged Sarkodie as a hypocrite. In his interview with Zylofon FM, Shatta Wale said the Sarkcess Music Records Boss’ tweet is not from the heart and he hates the fact that Sarkodie has always been acting like a boss. He said: “Sarkodie has become too known. He was recently on Hitz FM and he was trying to pose big to me. I don’t pose big to people. Music is not about your dress and it’s not about how you speak. I don’t want hypocrites around me. Sarkodie has always been a hypocrite. I didn’t wish him on his birthday. He thinks he can tweet about my collabo and make people say he’s a matured person. I won’t retweet his tweet. He can say that message but I know deep down within him it wasn’t a real tweet.”