 [FILES] A suspected political thug, Dauda Momoh, has been killed by a mob in Adavi l Local Government Area of Kogi State for stabbing Ahmed Okino to death in Ogaminana market, near Okene, Kogi Central area of the state on Monday.  According to an eyewitness report, Okino was accosted by Momoh at the market where he accused Okino of implicating him in a case of theft at Adavi local council. The state Police Public Relations Officer, DSP William Aya, who confirmed this to newsmen in Lokoja, said the encounter later degenerated to an argument, which made an infuriated Momoh to stab Okino to death on the spot. The police spokesman said residents who were nearby immediately descended on Momoh and killed him instantly. He added that a detachment of policemen was immediately deployed to the scene to prevent the situation from getting out of hand. Aya explained further that the bodies of the deceased had been taken to the mortuary of the General Hospital, Okene, while normalcy had returned to Ogaminana. Also speaking on the incident, the Information Officer of the Adavi LGA, Mr. Obeito Hassan, confirmed that Okino was a security guard at the council. He said Okino was on duty on June 21 when 13 bags of rice and a double door refrigerator got missing from the council’s store. Hassan said the matter was reported to the police who later arrested Okino for questioning on June 24. The Information Officer explained that it was during questioning that Okino mentioned Momoh to the police as a suspect. He noted that both of them were in police custody until June 28 when they were released due to the intervention of the local government Administrator, Mr. Joseph Omuya Salami.
Hassan, however, said he was shocked that the two of them died as a result of an argument over the incident that had been resolved. Meanwhile, suspected assailants on Tuesday night besieged the Erinjiyan-Ekiti residence of a former deputy speaker of Ekiti House of Assembly, Olusegun Adewumi, in Ekiti West Local Government Area. The bandits, who forced their way into the residence at about 2:00a.m. didn’t meet Adewumi who reportedly travelled to Canada with his family. It would be recalled that some bandits had on March 30, 2013 attacked the former deputy speaker’s residence in Erinjiyan, where his mother, Mrs. Juliana Adewumi and an aide, Mr. Ayo Jeje, aka Murphy were murdered. The gardener in charge of the residence, who was not around when the incident happened, said the assailants who infiltrated into the house were after the former speaker because no property were carted away. He explained it was when the hoodlums had left that the people inside called to notify him of the incident. He said: “I was in Aramoko when I received a call from someone living close to Honourable’s house that I should come at dawn to Erinjiyan. Not quite long, I received other calls from two different people, who were known to me. And I rushed down to Erinjiyan at dawn to check. When I got there, I could see traces of the entry, but no property was carted away. “They were said to be fully armed, asking about the honourable. They were quoted to have said ‘the stupid guy is not in Ado and still nowhere to be found in his hometown, Erijiyan.’” He added that the bandits invaded Adewumi’s residence in Ado Ekiti few months ago, saying this will be the third time the former lawmaker would be attacked since the gruesome killing of his mother. When contacted, the Ekiti Police Command spokesman, Caleb Ikechukwu, a Deputy Superintendent of Police, said the command has not been briefed of the incident. Meanwhile, the police have begin a massive manhunt for the killers of a Divisional Police Officer and three other cops, including a pregnant policewoman in a brutal attack on a police station at Agugama, Yenagoa, Bayelsa State. Sources at the state police command said the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, has made good his promise to send a crack team of detectives from force headquarters to hunt down the perpetrators. Though there is no official statement of their arrival but our correspondent who visited the state police command noticed the busy activities at the command headquarters with the new additional policemen deployed. Our sources said some of the detectives had already begun preliminary investigation in an effort to complement the efforts of the Bayelsa command in carrying out discrete investigation into the incident.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .