 Marketing Manager, SPAR Nigeria, Mr. Emmanuel Isangediok (left,)  Best Child Actor, Mariam Kayode, holding her plaque and  Ekponoimo Iphyyok Inuenekpo of RealTime Films Festival.<br />  The festival, which held at multiple places across Lagos, drew participants from across Africa. Speaking on the reward for the upcoming actor, Group Head, Marketing, John Goldsmith, said Nigerian children need to be aided to achieve their goals in life, noting that getting children who are interested in film productions and performing arts has not been easy. He said: “Creative expressions cannot be separated from the realities of this age. Nigerians are doing great exploits globally and we need to nurture the upcoming talents, which will in turn, enhance the creative industry in the country in general. Our brand will continue to support the development of the Nigerian child through various initiatives.” Artistic Director, RealTime Film Festival, Stanlee Ohikhuare, said the emergence of talented children could be encouraged with incentives that would contribute to their overall success in the industry. He stated that the creative industry in the country would blossom more if brands support the ingenuity of everyone with the film making sector. “We look forward to rewarding more upcoming talents and we will equally celebrate their creativity till they come into maturity in the industry,” he said. An elated Kayode said: “I’m excited to be a recipient of the award this year, SPAR has rewarded me for being a part of the movie industry and I will give my best to acting till the brand becomes so proud of me. This year’s award will spur me more into action. Every company that encourages children like SPAR is developing the future of Nigeria.” The festival is the only one with a competitive category for films made by kids. During the festival, there is a workshop where children are taught the rudiments of filmmaking and their productions are shown at the yearly festival. The event attracted people from the corporate and social world alongside A-list movie artists and celebrities. A total of about 178 short movies of various genres from 156 countries were screened alongside four feature films.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .