Prominent Nigerian photographer and singer, TY Bello has taken to social media to share her personal experience as a rape victim. Her revelation is coming amid the trending rape allegation trailing the global senior pastor of Commonwealth of Zion Assembly (COZA), Pastor Biodun Fatoyinbo. Busola Dakolo, the wife of Nigerian singer, Timi Dakolo made the allegations in a tell-all interview with Chude Jideonwo, for YNaija TV. Ty Bello In a lengthy post she shared on Instagram, the mother of two revealed she was sexually abused at a younger age and she had struggled to keep silent for so long. “I remember how the silence I had to keep after the abuse slowly killed me. I also remember the relief I found in my relationship God so early. That really was my rescue ..yet for decades I could never find my voice on the matter .. I was still afraid ..Mostly because I felt it may have been the fault of my seven-year-old self .. somehow… Fast forward .. almost thirty years later ..I knew better .. and was ‘big’ enough. “I understood the importance of stepping up when it was time to share my story .. and ..I did in my @kemiadetiba ‘s #kingwomen interview .. it surprised me, however, how hard it was to talk about sexual abuse after so many years .. but it was such a relief . But soon after came the resistance. “In sharing ..I faintly began tasting the shame again .. that same feeling of naked ‘dirtiness ‘’ I had as a child .. it hadn’t completely gone away. It also became clear .. that real stories of sexual abuse still sounded like NOVELTY.  I saw headline after headline even in broken English .. this my ‘confession ‘.that ‘ Dem ‘SPOIL ‘ me when I be small pikin’.. “It didn’t feel good that it was so ‘sensational’ as I was aware of how massive a plague this was ..WE CLEARLY ARE NOT TALKING ENOUGH ..too many children sexually abused .. too many sex crimes ..especially now .. right under our noses. “I had to push past the inner conflict that talking about it was ‘unnecessary’ … it was too long ago ..too ‘Oyinboish ‘to discuss publicly .. ‘. ‘Then of course ..that talking about it now would make it seem like my family failed me as a child .. but they didn’t .. and could never have known .. I had mastered SILENCE !they were victims too. “Every abuse story is different but it is a SHAME that makes them complicated. “Sadly, the shame hardly lies with the perpetrators. So I’ve learned that it’s time to nail shame right where it belongs ..Far away from the wronged .. Bringing them instead to healing, justice, and freedom. “We must teach every child the power of their voices. Apparently, we must teach adults too … and more importantly we must learn to listen .. understand and know that Sex is not a dirty word .. but DENIAL is …” It would be recalled that Bello had also shared her experience with Kemi Adetiba on her notable ‘King Woman’ series. Some other celebrities who have shared their molestation and rape stories include OAP Dotun and author Chika Unigwe