Nigerian actor, Richard Mofe-Damijo fondly called RMD has taken to social media to pen an open letter to the Commissioner of Police of the FCT, CP Bala Ciroma. In his letter, the screen star is asking for justice for the rape of a four-year-old girl identified as Khloe who was allegedly raped by Mr Idris Ebiloma. RMD wrote on his Instagram, “AN OPEN LETTER TO FCT CP.
 Dear CP Bala Ciroma,
 I am hearing rumours that nearly 3 years ago, in your jurisdiction, a full grown man Mr IDRIS EBILOMA allegedly raped a 4 year old child. All rapes are evil, damaging and unforgivable but the rape of a child? That in itself is not only the worst form of rape but one of the most heinous crimes anyone can commit but more disheartening than the crime itself is the allegation that the police is frustrating efforts to get this innocent child the justice she so badly deserves.
 With the increased spate of insecurity, abuse of personal freedom (especially by SARS) and now rape. The police cannot play ostrich and pretend to be unaware of the mood of the nation. What better time and what better way to prove that the police is indeed our friend by ensuring that the investigation and evidence(s) presented to the court are thorough and an ironclad case made against the offender.
 Sir, I have never met you but I hear that you’re a good man and I am going by that assumption which is why I am writing you this open letter, hoping that the power of social media will lead it to you and trust that you will live up to your reputation and use your noble office to get KHLOE the justice she deserves, that way she grows up having great hopes in our law enforcement and judiciary.
 Sir, CP Bala, we are rooting for you to write your name in gold in Nigeria’s history by being the one who made it happen.
 Kind Regards,
 Richard Mofe-Damijo.
 #NoToRape #EnoughIsEnough #JusticeForKhloe #LifeImprisonmentForRapists #RMDSaysSo
 cc: @nigeriapoliceforce @nigeria_police_force @opetodolapo @mirabelcentreng @ruggedybaba
 Please tag other police force/officers you know. Thank you ” RMD’s letter is coming on the heels of some other celebrities like Tonto Dikeh coming on social media to ask Nigerians to come out to protest the purported plan to release the alleged perpetrator of the crime. Dikeh shared evidence that Ebiloma raped the 4-year-old while calling on Nigerians to protest and seek justice for the minor at Apo court on Friday.