A spokesman to former Nigerian vice president Tuesday accused the country’s president of deflecting the attention of the country from the Shiite-police clash with the release of the ministerial list. Paul Ibe, who is the spokesman for Atiku Abubakar, said President Muhammadu Buhari used his 43-man ministerial nominees’ list to deflect the narrative of the ‘avoidable’ death of about 13 persons during a protest against the continued detention of their leader Ibrahim El-Zakzaky and his wife on Monday. “Buhari releases ministerial list ostensibly to deflect the narrative of the avoidable deaths following the Shiites protest of Monday,” Ibe said in a tweet. The protest on Monday, July 22, claimed the life of deputy police commissioner Umar Usman, who was in charge of operations at the Federal Territory Police Command, a journalist with Channels Television Precious Owolabi and about 11 Shiites. Buhari condoled with the victims moments after the ministerial nominees’ list was announced by Senate president Senator Ahmad Lawan Tuesday. Among the ministerial nominees, Buhari listed former ministers such as Chris Ngige, Hadi Sirika, Rotimi Amaechi, Adamu Adamu, Mohammed Adamu, Babatunde Fashola and Lai Mohammed. Others in the list are Uche Ogah, Emeka Nwajuiba, Sadiya Farouk, Musa Bello, Godswill Akpabio, Sharon Ikeazor, Ogbonnaya Onu, Akpa Udo, and Adebayo (Ekiti). Also, Timipre Sylva, Adamu Adamu, Shewuye (Borno), Isa Pantami, Gbemi Saraki, Ramatu Tijani, Clement Abam were also declared as part of the nominees. Paullen Tallen, Abubakar Aliyu, Sale Mamman, Abubakar Malami, Muhammed Mamood, Rauf Aregbesola, Mustapha Buba Jedi Agba, Olamilekan Adegbite, and Mohammed Dangyadi. Unlike his first term when he appointed only 36 ministers, one per each state, President Buhari nominated one person per geo-political zone which totalled the ministerial nominees’ to 43. The ministerial nominees are subject to confirmation by the Nigerian Senate. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .