 Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello  Those clamouring for direct primary condemned NWC’s action, saying the body had taken side with Governor Yahaya Bello-led faction. A member of the late Prince Abubakar Audu Campaign Organisation, Odaudu Joel, said: “I see nothing wrong in the decision reached by the NWC, since that is what party stakeholders are favourably disposed to. “Moreover, I presume the NWC is being careful to avoid a repeat of the unfortunate Zamfara saga, including the ordeal, which befell the party in Ogun and Imo states.” Speaking shortly after declaring his intention to contest for governorship seat, Haruna Yusuf, called on APC’s NWC to be sensitive to the plights of Kogi stakeholders, who are clamouring for direct primary. He said: “The Adams Oshiomole- led executive committee will certainly listen to the people. This decision cannot be final. We will continue to impress it on them why they should adopt direct primary.” The party’s National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Oniluhad in a statement, said approval was given after a meeting, last Friday, “where a formal request from Kogi State executive and stakeholders in preference for the indirect primary was considered and deliberated on.” Yusuf, who hails from the same senatorial district with the incumbent Governor and a former Aide de camp (ADC) to former Governor Oshiomole, said aspirants would meet to harmonise their positions. He maintained that aspirants were not jittery over adoption of the indirect method. He, however, said their fear was that the method would confer undue advantage on the Governor, who he noted, has manipulated the party’s state executive committee in his favour. Kingsley Fanwo, Director General, Media and Publicity to Governor Bello, said the Governor welcomed the NCW’s decision and would continue to work hard to win the Governorship election, when given the mandate to fly APC’s flag.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .