Queens rapper Nicki Minaj has undeniably made huge contributions to hip-hop but regardless of her success, she still has a hoard of naysayers who believe her success is unprecedented. On Friday, the artiste shared a lengthy Instagram post in which she boasted about her accomplishments as well as receiving love from fellow female artistes. Nicki reminded the world it was only 12 years ago when she dropped her first full-length project, and that she has continued to secure No. 1s without the help of ghostwriters or “a crusade by radio stations, influencers and blogs.” “12 years ago I dropped my 1st mixtape. Wrote every single word on every single song. I was so proud of that,” she wrote. “Eventually the Barbz were all wearing pink hair, Chinese bangs, & Barbie chains. Colorful wigs came all the way back in style. Everyone became Barbies & Dolls.”   A post shared by Barbie® (@nickiminaj) on Jul 5, 2019 at 11:01am PDT  Nicki is obviously aware of her reach and impact. She acknowledges that she was inspired by others who came before her, and she was never too proud to admit it. “I always shouted out my influences in my interviews,” she continued. “Now a days, it’s become cool to pretend u weren’t influenced by other artists. S/O to the ones big enough to do it: Kash, Asian, Cuban, Saweetie, Meg, Malibu, YOUNG MA, Ms. Banks, Lady Leshurr, etc. No female rapper (other than Trina) did a song w/me or congratulated me on my billboard accomplishments. I didn’t mind. I never felt they were obligated to do so.”   Oop! #NickiMinaj responds to some fans A post shared by  The Shade Room (@theshaderoom) on Jul 5, 2019 at 11:53am PDT  She went on to criticize writers who have dismissed her accomplishment and focused on everything she “didn’t do.” She then issued a stern warning: “Y’all are rlly sick & ima call y’all out one by one on Queen Radio. Most of y’all doing these write ups have never fought for anything in life. You just sit on the sidelines & watch the doers do!”   #NickiMinaj has time today!! #LilKim #TaylorSwift (View previous posts) A post shared by  The Shade Room (@theshaderoom) on Jul 5, 2019 at 11:57am PDT 