 Former Nigeria international, Henry Nwosu  He declared that Amuneke would have been left to build the Tanzanian national team for at least one year before parting ways with him. Nwosu said that Amuneke’s ability to raise a squad within short notice and qualified Tanzania for the 2019 AFCON has indicated that the former Super Eagles star can transform the team in the nearest future. The ex national U-17 team manager posited that using the matches played by Tanzania in the AFCON to measure Amuneke’s ability was not justifiable at the moment. Nwosu however enjoined Amuneke to see the sack as an opportunity to move higher in his career, adding that taking Tanzania to the 2019 AFCON was a laudable achievement for the erstwhile Barcelona FC forward. “It is quite unfortunate Amuneke was sacked from the Tanzanian national team. I was expecting that the Tanzanian FA would give him the chance to build a solid team at least for one year. “He started well with the team by booking the AFCON ticket, but they should not have expected much from him at the AFCON based on the fact that he is just building a team. The FA would have given him the chance to stay much longer with the team and also expose the players to more games.” Nwosu counselled Amuneke to look on the brighter side, saying his “stint in Tanzania has opened more doors for him. He should take the sack as an opportunity to move to greater level in his career,” he said. Meanwhile, Amuneke has expressed his gratitude to the TFF for giving him the opportunity to serve Tanzanian football. He said he has no grudge against the TFF, adding that hiring and firing are part of the coaching job. “We talked about our contract, we looked at contents, and of course, there is always a common ground. “They (TFF) say they want an indigenous coach. And of course, this business is about coming and going. “I am happy with my players, I am proud of their achievements even in defeat. Morocco’s coach was relieved of his duty. Same also for Egyptian coach and Uganda. That’s how it goes and one has to move forward.
“I was somewhere before I came here (Tanzania) and of course, life is not static, it evolves so one has to think forward.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .