The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State has warned opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) to stop propagandas against governor Kayode Fayemi. APC also accused PDP of being enemies of Ekiti people. “It is clear that they are certified enemies of the progress of Ekiti and their only goal is to keep the esteemed people of Ekiti State in their manufactured poverty,” Ekiti APC spokesman Sam Oluwalana said in a statement. The APC spokesman alleged that the administration of former Governor Ayodele Fayose of the PDP plunged the state into billions of naira debt, resulting in poverty for the people. Oluwalana said the state under Fayose took loans- N2 billion commercial bank loan, N18.2 billion and N3.5bn in federal and state bonds, budget support facility of N16.9 billion – and owed N8.3 billion in salaries, contractors arrears of N2 billion and pensions and gratuities arrears of N22.2 billion. He said all loans by the former governor did not result in any productive investment in any sector of the state economy. “The sorry state that the erstwhile administration left the finances of Ekiti State on its exit on October 16, 2018, is clearly enumerated in all veritable agencies involved in debt management in the country,” Oluwalana said. Oluwalana posited that the state was not in such a condition during the first two-year stint of Fayemi as governor, whom he claimed was ‘rigged out’ in 2014. The APC spokesman said Fayemi secured a bond of N25billion for the development of assets like Ikogosi Warm Spring, the Ekiti Parapo Pavilion, the Civic Center and construction of over 500km of the road networks with over 60% paid in the first tranche of the bond. He said the PDP has, however, been overwhelmed by the successes of the Fayemi administration since his re-election in 2018 is gradually restoring values of Ekiti. The APC spokesman said instead of the PDP acknowledging the ‘successes’, “it decided to muddle the waters with their unintelligent, harmful and destructive style of politics that lacks depth, focus and goodwill which only seeks to pollute the calmness and peace that is gradually returning to Ekiti State.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .