At least, two persons were confirmed dead, while nine others were critically injured in a multiple auto crash at Straigate Isara, Ogere area on the Lagos-Ibadan expressway, on Saturday night. The crash, which occurred at about 8:30p.m. involved six vehicles, two white Toyota buses, with registration number XR 516 KG and KUJ 186 XB; white Nissan Truck- KJA 785 XN; a green Toyota car-LSD 435 FK; a black Kia car-LND 866 BA and Leyland truck. According to the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Ogun State command, a total of 35 people were involved. While two persons, a male and female died, nine people got injured. The State FRSC Sector Commander, Clement Oladele, attributed the cause of the crash to “wrongful overtaking caused by excessive speed inappropriate for the construction zone.” He said injured victims were rescued to Victory Hospital Ogere for medical attention, while the bodies were deposited at the FOS morgue Ipara, as the obstruction was cleared immediately to restore traffic. While commiserating with families of the victims, he informed them to contact the FRSC Command in Ogere or the medical facilities mentioned above for additional information on the crash. The Sector Commander admonished motorists to remember that the entire stretch of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway is a construction zone and motorists  should therefore endeavour to respect traffic regulations regarding construction zones, where speed should not exceed 50 kilometers per hour and overtaking is also prohibited at diversion points. He said: These construction areas on the Lagos-Ibadan road are specifically around Ogunmakin and Ogere, where the construction company RCC diverted traffic and also between Mowe and Ibafo where the construction company, Julius Berger Nigeria Plc, also diverted traffic for rehabilitation of the corridor.” The Sector Commander further advised passengers to caution their drivers, noting that those not adhering to the above mentioned construction rules, should be promptly reported to the FRSC through the FRSC toll free number 122. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .