 Ariel Guarco  This platform allows for efficiencies in diving Member, Accounts and Credit Risk Management processes; with high end security features and access to a centralised financial services ecosystem; amongst other benefits. The Cooperative world, held its International Day of Cooperative 2019 (CoopsDay) themed “COOPS FOR DECENT JOBS” in Abuja last week. The focal messaging was to inform the public that Cooperatives are people-centred enterprises, characterized by democratic control that prioritise human development and social justice within the workplace. Ariel Guarco, president of the International Cooperative Alliance (ICA), mentioned that “Cooperatives help to preserve employment and promote decent work in all sectors of the economy. Through participation, members have a motivation to change their lives, their communities and the world”. We celebrate a future in which human development and social justice are priorities. Through #CoopsDay, Local, National and Global Policymakers, Civil-Society Organisations and the Public in general can learn how cooperatives contribute to a decent working environment; hence the theme for this year. The event underscored the contributions of the Cooperative movement to resolving some major problems addressed by the United Nations and to strengthening and extending the Partnerships between the International Cooperative movement and other stakeholders. UCP and all CFAN partners came together at the Public Lecture, to update Cooperatives on the advancements made in the various sectors, with particular attention on Financial Institutions, Renewable Energy, Non-interest Banking, all these initiatives will all be available within a platform. Driving enterprise with the use of technology and understanding how technology will steward Cooperative movement to the next level of advancement. UCP creates visibility to the Cooperative Societies and its members; closing the gap on access to key benefits like access to healthcare, food, insurance, pension, affordable housing and so much more.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .