Travels start the largest online travel platform will be offering you great deals for your summer vacation which promises to be fun, relaxing and adventurous. This amazing deals will importantly provide you the opportunity to create amazing holiday pictures for your Instagram followers to drool on. Here is a list of the top seven instagrammable destinations that combine famous monuments, picturesque views and great lighting! RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL: The “Christ The Redeemer” Statue in Rio de Janeiro is one of the most famous attractions in Brazil, the iconic monument is surrounded by the country’s natural beauty. Those who make to the top of the statues Hunchback Mountain are rewarded with a marvelous view. Experience the stunning South American coastline, the city’s edgy underground nightlife and a number of magnificently scenic locations like the Escadaria Selaron steps with its multicolored mosaic. SAL, CAPE VERDE: The collection of 10 volcanic islands in Africa offers breathtaking views of its beautiful beaches, rustic island scenery and the hatching of baby turtles from each August. Soak up the slower pace of life and enjoy the Afro-Portuguese rhythm of the country that offers visas on arrival to Nigerian passport holders. Located just off the coast of Senegal in West Africa, why not try hiking up the volcanic mountain ‘Pico do Fogo’ and create a collection of stunning photos. PORT LOUIS, MAURITIUS: The beautiful South-East African Island of Mauritius will give you a selection of backdrops to die for. The beautiful beaches, landscape views and outdoor activities provide a range of magnificent things to capture. Experience the welcoming nature of the Mauritian people and the lively atmosphere of the country’s capital city Port Louis. You will barely need any filters for this instagram perfect destination. ONTARIO, CANADA: The magnificent Niagara Falls, sits on the border of New York, U.S.A and Ontario, Canada. A shot of the geological wonder is a must. Wow family and friends with a video of the trio of waterfalls, which is visited by around 30 million people every year. If you get too close, you just might get drenched! PARIS, FRANCE: A getaway to this trendy capital never goes out of style. Take a romantic trip for two to the city of love and capture hundreds of memorable moments. The city provides a backdrop of timeless structures such as the Eiffel Tower, Louvre Museum and Arc de Triomphe. Take the family and treat the kids to Disneyland Paris. There is nothing that says summer like the magical shot by Sleeping Beauty’s enhanced pink castle. LONDON, UK: The multicultural capital has something for everyone over the summer period. Visit Big Ben, Buckingham Palace and shop ‘til you drop on Oxford Street. Try something out of the ordinary with a visit to Abbey Road Crossing made famous by The Beatles. Get the ultimate selfie and a view of the whole city from a ride on the London Eye and tick off a bucket list item with a picture in a classic red telephone box. DUBAI, UAE: Looking for a family friendly trip? The United Arab Emirates city of Dubai is the destination that ticks all the boxes. There is a magnificent selection of picturesque shopping malls, theme parks, and activities to choose from. Visit the Dubai Aquarium and underwater zoo for a uniquely visual experience. Or go skiing in the summer at Ski Dubai, the snowy indoor ski resort. 