 Ethiopian Airlines. PHOTO: TWITTER/FAAN  By so doing, you are increasing the financial status of these Nigerian carriers and that will promote jobs. The staff strength of all the 34 foreign airlines flying in this country is not even up to 100 people. Air peace alone is putting out about 3,000 jobs and 9,000 ancillary employments,” Onyema said. 
 
A former Managing Director, Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), Capt. Roland Iyayi said the issue is more of commercial interest of the government.
 
Iyayi said it requires the government to look at the benefits that an international airline provides to its local economy, even beyond its revenue contributions yearly, before doing the needful.
 
“Aviation has what we call the footprint. It is not necessarily the number of passengers you carry; it is the enabler of the economy. You have tourism, agriculture, oil and gas, and all that rely on market access, and the only way you can have market access is through aviation. So, for as long as we do not look at this as a fundamental issue to address, then we have a problem,” he said. President of African Aviation Services, Nick Fadugba, observed that there is no market in Africa that is comparable to Nigeria, and the main reason many foreign airlines are coming is to make good profit, “while most Nigerian airlines, to the best of my knowledge, are not making a lot of money.”
   
But the international aviation industry has changed dramatically since the days of Nigerian Airways, Fadugba said. 
 
“Today, no airline can succeed in working alone. Therefore, I want to once again appeal to airlines in Nigeria to come together, to work together in operations, training, and maintenance. We need to partner. Even if we don’t merge we need to partner with one another. 
 
“The average fleet size in Nigeria is about maximum of 10 aircraft per airline, and yet we are competing with British Airways that has over 400 aircraft. Delta Airlines has over 500 aircraft, even Ethiopian Airlines has 110 aircraft. So, how can small airlines compete?” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .