The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has criticised President Muhammadu Buhari for allegedly compensating indicted persons, especially vice-chancellors with federal appointments. It stated this yesterday in a statement jointly signed by the University of Ibadan (UI) Chairman of the Union, Professor Deji Omole and the Ibadan Zonal Coordinator, Dr. Ade Adejumo. ASUU argued that the appointment of the Vice-Chancellor of Kwara State University (KWASU), Prof. Abdulrasheed Na’allah, who was indicted by the visitation panel under Governor Abdulfattah Ahmed as Vice-Chancellor, University of Abuja, makes a mockery of government’s anti-corruption campaign. They maintained that the panel’s report of 2016 indicted Prof. Na’Allah of financial recklessness, maladministration, and abuse of due process, as entrenched in university laws. They also disclosed that while Na’Allah’s tenure lapses at Kwara State University on July 27, 2019, he has since resumed as Vice-Chancellor at the University of Abuja. “No matter how grievous the offense of anyone close to the presidency is, such a person is further rewarded with a federal appointment or treated with kid gloves, thereby entrenching corruption and impunity,” the statement reads. The ASUU chiefs argued that empowering indicted persons with political offices rubbishes the fight against corruption and would only encourage other people to engage in corrupt practices since a reward of higher offices awaited them. “A government that claims to be fighting corruption is protecting people indicted for graft and compensating them with appointments. An example is the case of KWASU Vice-Chancellor, who was indicted by the visitation panel, set up by Governor Abdulfattah Ahmed’s administration. “The white paper recommendations were not implemented because they were suppressed by politicians. Now, the President Buhari administration has appointed the same person as Vice-Chancellor of the University of Abuja. “He has even resumed there, while his tenure is yet to lapse at KWASU, thereby occupying two vice chancellorship positions,” the statement added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .