 [FILES] Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Adams Oshiomhole speaks during the party caucus emergency meeting on the postponed general elections in Abuja, on February 18, 2019. – National party leaders including candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo attended an emergency national caucus meeting of the party to discuss the way out following Saturday’s postponement of the general elections. (Photo by PIUS UTOMI EKPEI / AFP)  Justice M. Umar gave the order following a motion ex parte motion filed by Clerk of the Edo Assembly, Yayaha Audu Omogbai. Defendants in the suit filed on June 28, 2019 are APC’c National Working Committee (NWC), IGP, Edo State Commissioner of Police (CP) and APC National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu. Justice Umar ordered the defendants, their servants and agents not to interfere, disrupt or obstruct the constitutional duties of members of the state legislature. He also barred the defendants from further publishing in any newspaper or other media, any inciting publications concerning the inauguration of the Seventh Assembly and the election of Speaker and Deputy Speaker June 17, 2019 in the Assembly Complex. Meanwhile, the Oba of Benin and Chairman of the Edo State Council of Traditional Rulers, Omo N’Oba N’ Edo, Uku Akpolokpolo, Ewuare II yesterday sought the intervention of President Muhammadu Buhari to end the feud between Governor Godwin Obaseki and Oshiomhole. The Benin monarch who led members of the Council and other chiefs on a visit to President Buhari at State House, Abuja, also demanded two ministerial slots for the state in the new Federal Executive Council (FEC). In a written address during a closed-door meeting, the Oba said: “Mr. President, we as traditional rulers in Edo State are concerned about the crisis among Oshiomhole, Governor Obaseki and the state House of Assembly. “If the crisis is not resolved immediately it may jeopardise the progress of the state. On behalf of the good people of Edo State, we kindly appeal to Mr. President to use your good offices to intervene and stop the crisis.” A statement issued by Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, noted that Buhari commended the Oba for his intervention in human trafficking by tracking down and discouraging facilitators, as well as rehabilitating repatriated victims. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .