An embattled monarch in Ekiti State, the Obasaoye of Isaoye Ekiti in Moba Local Government Area, Oba Gabriel Olajide, has appealed to the state government and his subjects to allow him to return back to his throne. Olajide said he became the king in 2017 with a strong vision to rewrite the history of the community and foster development by changing the backward position of the town to prosperity. Oba Olajide, who is a member of the Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministry, was last year chased out of the town, following suspicion that he was not interested in the traditional religion of his people. The town, in a petition signed by 14 chiefs and dated July 19, 2017, which was addressed to the council of traditional rulers clearly stated their resolve to remove the king for allegedly abdicating the throne of his forebears. In the petition, the chiefs raised 13 offenses against Oba Ajibade, which includes: non-performance of traditional rites, harassment of subjects with police, highhandedness, abscondment, among other issues. Although he assured that he would not forbid his subjects who practice traditional religion from practicing their faith, the monarch, however, vowed that he would not participate in ritual activities being a Christian. “Going by the provision of Section 38 of the 1999 Constitution, I have no power to eradicate any religion because we have the freedom to practice the religion of our choice”. Debunking the allegations leveled against him at a press conference in Ado Ekiti on Wednesday, Oba Ajibade revealed that he would have been killed just because of his faith last year August when some irate subjects brought a body to his palace and deflated his vehicle’s tyres. He appealed to his detractors to sheath their swords and join hands with him to improve the human resources and infrastructure facilities of the ancient but backward community. “I want to appeal to the government to plead with them to allow peace to reign in the interest of our children and generations coming.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .