 Ibrahim Ahmad (middle) and his two accomplices  The suspect, alongside his accomplices, Abdulmajid Mohammed and Musa Sunusi, both aged 18, hurriedly buried the victim in an uncompleted building at Sheka area of the ancient city of Kano.Briefing newsmen in Kano, shortly after police operatives exhumed the victim’s body from a shallow grave, the Commissioner of Police, Ahmed Iliyasu, said the police received a report that one Ahmad Ado, five years old of Karkasara Quarters, Kano, had been kidnapped by unknown persons at Ma’ahat Nursery and Primary School, Karkasara, Kano. According to him, the kidnappers subsequently contacted the family of their victim, demanding a ransom of N50 million before they will release the boy. Following the tip off, a team of Operation Puff Adder detectives from Anti-Kidnapping Squad, swung into action, using technical intelligence and arrested the principal suspect, Ibrahim Ahmad, aged 19, of Darmanawa quarters, Kano. On interrogation, according to Iliyasu, two of his accomplice, Abdulmajid Mohammed and Musa Sunusi, of Sheka quarters, Kunmbotso Local Government Area of Kano, were nabbed. During interrogation, the suspected confessed to have over-drugged the victim after kidnapping him, which subsequently led to his death at Sheka Sabuwa Abuja Quarters, Kumbotso. The CP said an investigation has commenced, adding that on completion the suspects will be charged to court for prosecution. In an interview with newsmen, the prime suspect, Ahmad, admitted to committing the crime, adding that he was a first offender. The Ogun State police command yesterday paraded two suspects for allegedly murdering a yet to be identified man in Sagamu area of the state. The suspects: Abba Abdulkareem and Munira Usman were paraded alongside other suspects for crimes ranging from cultism, armed robbery, kidnapping, burglary to impersonation. They were paraded by the Commissioner of Police, Mr. Bashir Makama, at the command’s headquarters, Eleweran, Abeokuta. Weapons recovered from them included, locally made pistols, battle-axes, knives, among others.Speaking to reporters, the commissioner said: “We have identified that some of the security challenges confronting the state are mostly linked to cultism and cult activities, both in tertiary institutions and even on the streets. “We have been able to mop up so many of them but today it is taking a different shape because some of them (cultists) accepted to renounce their membership of these cult activities. And we are glad that they did because of their future.” The murder suspect, Abba Abdulkareem, while speaking to journalists said his gang had gone to burgle a shop at Sagamu and during the operation, one of them he identified simply as Yusuf who is now at large, killed a person. Abdulkareem, aged 25 from Kaduna State, said they were arrested at their hideout in Ogere area where they were sharing their loots. Also paraded was an Indian hemp smuggler, Kenneth Agbamhe, who was allegedly arrested with 40 bags of weeds suspected to be Indian hemp. Agbamhe, who hails from Edo State and his accomplice, one Mike, now at large were intercepted by the men of the command on patrol along Ayetoro road while transporting the bags of Indian hemp to an unidentified buyer in Lagos. The bags were carefully concealed in a Toyota hilux vehicle. Agbamhe, who denied ownership of the Indian hemp, said he was contacted by Mike who paid him N5,000 to escort the goods to Lagos.Meanwhile, the Imo State Commissioner of Police, CP Rabiu Ladodo, has said his men have arrested 24 cult members while they were about performing initiation rites, adding that he is leading a team combing a forest in Ohaji, boundary with Rivers State, where kidnappers keep their victims. According to Ladodo, who fielded questions yesterday My Radio, the cult members would face the wrath of the law. “We have arrested 24 cult members. We heard they were doing initiation, we went there and arrested them.”Also, the CP disclosed that the police have recovered the riffle of the police inspector who allegedly killed a young man in Obowo recently, regretting that the officer was on the run. He advised police officers to be guided by the guidelines on how to use firearms, warning that he would not spare any erring officer. “We are still looking for him. If we get him, he must face the law. He abandoned his riffle and ran away. We recovered it. We are looking for him and we must get him.” Also, the newly posted Commissioner of Police to Anambra State, John B. Abang, has warned criminals operating in the state to leave the state or face the full wrath of the law. The commissioner gave the warning yesterday during his maiden briefing to newsmen at the State Police Command, Awka, reminding that he has been briefed on the major crimes witnessed daily.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .