A colonel, captain and three other soldiers of the Nigeria Army were kiled Wednesday in a clash with Boko Haram in Maiduguri, Borno State. “A Colonel and a Captain, as well as 3 soldiers on transit from Maiduguri to Damaturu, run into an ambush staged by the routed/fleeing terrorists from the Jakana axis which led to their unfortunate death,” an army spokesman Ado Isa said. Isa said that the troops of 212 Battalion at Forward Operating Base (FOB), Jakana, neutralised an unconfirmed number of Boko Haram, ISWAP terrorist who attempted to infiltrate the army base in need of logistics. He stated that the terrorists the army base at about 18:45 hours in 7 Gun Trucks and fought fiercely to infiltrate the camp, but the attack was thwarted with heavy fire and bombardment by the Nigerian troops who were vigilant. The army spokesman said the terrorists could not bear the firepower of the army and lost a significant number of both equipment and personnel in an exchange of fire. He, however, did not state the number of terrorists that died in the fight. Isa said the terrorists lost initiative and withdrew in disarray along the Benisheikh to Damaturu axis, and abandoned a damaged utility gun truck which was earmarked to convey looted items. He said items seized from the terrorists include 1 Anti Aircraft Gun, 2 Rocket Propelled Grenade (RPG) Tubes, 2 AK 47 Rifles, 15 Machine Gun rounds and 12 AK 47 NATO rounds. The Chief of Army Staff Tukur Yusuf Buratai who, commiserated with the families of the fallen heroes, said the Nigerian Army will not be deterred in the ongoing fight against terrorism and insurgency in the North East. He commended the efforts of the entire troops in the theatre and charged them to remain focused, committed and professional in the discharge of their constitutional roles. “The sacrifices of the fallen heroes in the ongoing fight against terrorism and insurgency are no doubt painful to all, but that will further spur us to do more to ensure that our country remains secured, peaceful and free from terrorist activities for the overall interest of the nation,” Isa said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .