The social media was literally shut down when Disney released the official Lion King cast photo but it didn’t come without mixed reactions. There was a debate over the rather large gap between Beyonce who voices the character Nala and the rest of the Lion King stars. Confirming that the superstar singer did not indeed pose with the rest of the cast for the shoot, comedian John Oliver who plays Zazu in the film has disclosed that Beyonce was not actually present for the occasion. It is understandable why Queen Bey would miss the shoot considering how busy she is and since we live in the 21st century, Photoshop came to the rescue hence the gap.  Speaking about the distance between him and Beu, Oliver said: “It’s appropriate there’s a significant gap between me and the Queen.” Official Lion King cast | photo – Walt Disney Studios Speaking to fellow late-night TV host Stephen Colbert, Oliver said: “No, she wasn’t there… I think almost everyone else was there. I remember Chiwetel [Ejiofor, who voices Scar], we were setting up the shot and Chiwetel was sitting at the front. He said, ‘you need to be careful where your foot is’. And I looked down and there was just this piece of tape on the floor with Beyonce’s name written on it. And literally it was like an electrical reaction, just going ‘oh, f***’. Just the future presence of Beyonce was so intimidating. So if you look at my face in there, I look really intimidated, and that’s because what I’m doing is imagining that I am about to be put into a photo with Beyonce one day. And that was nerve-wracking enough.” Beyonce When asked about the “significant gap” between himself and Beyonce, Oliver said: “That’s only appropriate. It’s only appropriate that there’s a significant gap between me and the actual Queen.” When the audience was slow to react to the joke, Oliver said: “Wow. It didn’t seem like that was that controversial a thing to say. If you had a choice between Beyonce and Queen Elizabeth II, is anyone – including Queen Elizabeth II – taking the second one?” It would be recalled that Beyonce curated an album, “The Lion King: The Gift” for the film and it was released last Friday, July 19th to positive reviews. The album featured many African superstars like Wizkid, Tiwa Savage, Yemi Alade, Tekno to mention but a few.