 Bayelsa State Commissioner of Police, Uche Anozie, consoling Pa Siasia at his residence… on Tuesday.  The state Commissioner of Police, Uche Anozia, told newsmen that the command has deployed its marine components to Odoni waterways in Sagbama Local Government Area of Bayelsa as part of efforts to rescue the kidnapped octogenarian and other victims, including a 17-year-old girl. Unknown gunmen had invaded Odoni community on Monday, July 15, and kidnapped the woman, Mrs. Beauty Siasia with two others, Mrs. Florence Douanana, aged 65 and Selekire Douanana, aged 17. The police boss, who visited the community on Tuesday, stated that the command was doing everything possible for the victims to regain freedom from their captors. “The police are on top of the game in order to rescue the victims. I am assuring the public and relatives that no stone will be left unturned.” On checkmating the incidence of kidnapping, the commissioner said the command would continue to work hard to take control of marine landscape in the state. “You know Bayelsa is 80 percent water and that means our operations are mainly focusing on the waterways,” he said. Mr. Commander Siasia, a 93-year-old father of the former coach commended the effort of the police and appealed to them to redouble their operations to bring back his kidnapped wife. “My wife was taken away since Monday and up till now, I have not set my eyes on her. Please, help me to bring her alive to me. Thank you for your efforts,” he said. Meanwhile, the Siasia family said it is yet to hear from the abductors, as they have not opened communication with them. Mr. Dennis Siasia, younger brother to Samson, said the inability to contact them might not be unconnected with her mother’s inability to remember phone numbers as she was whisked away without her mobile phone. “Yes, the abductors have not contacted the family. We have reported to the police. She was taken away without taking along her drugs. Even if they ask her for our numbers, she would not be able to help because she cannot recall mobile numbers. We are full of prayers and hoping she would be released soon.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .