NCAA, Sam Adurogboye The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has advised the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) to deploy more security patrol vehicles to airports nationwide. The directive is the apex regulator’s response to forestall security breaches following an invader’s threat to a taxing aircraft at the weekend. A man, later identified as Usman Adamu from Niger Republic, intruded into the operations of an Azman airline’s plane at the Murtala Muhammed Airport terminal ll (MMA2), while waiting for take-off clearance from the control tower. General Manager, Public Relations of the NCAA, Sam Adurogboye, yesterday said, after a review of the preliminary report submitted by FAAN to the NCAA, and further investigation, FAAN has been advised to provide additional security patrol vehicles at the airside. Adurogboye added that the NCAA and Aviation Security personnel of FAAN would increase collaboration with all relevant agencies to strengthen security at the nation’s airports. “This is to forestall a similar occurrence of the security breach that happened at the MMA last weekend. The NCAA and other relevant agencies will continue to work together towards ensuring adequate security at all the nation’s airports,” he said. Aviation Security consultant, Group Capt. John Ojikutu (rtd), said the concerned authority must investigate the matter beyond deployment of more patrol vans. “Can FAAN take another critical look into the act of unlawful interference on Azman plane? How did the man climb the wing or the engine of the aircraft and how did he get to the aircraft holding point? Did he get help? That takes us back to the issue of background checks on all those working in the airport airside and the security controlled areas. “There was a time MMA was using the follow-me-vehicle to monitor aircraft taxing to the holding point until take-off. What has happened to that? There was also a plan at sometimes ago to deploy ground radar for aerodrome traffic control. What happened to that also? These were plans of almost two decades ago to solve aerodrome safety and security but they are still hunting us. What a shame,” Ojikutu said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .