Former governor of Ondo State, Dr. Olusegun Mimiko(left); Oyo State governor, Seyi Makinde; Ekiti State governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi; Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu; Ogun State governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun; and Ondo State governor, Rotimi Akeredolu at the funeral service for Mrs. Olufunke Olakunrin, daughter of Afenifere leader, Chief Reuben Fasoranti, at the Cathedral Church of Saint David, Ijomu Akure, Ondo State… yesterday. Fani-Kayode, cleric, others deplore insecurity, urge action
South West governors yesterday vowed to deal ruthlessly with criminals in the region. They assured residents that security architecture would be beefed up next month for effectiveness. Chairman of South West Governors Forum, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, read the riot act after an indoor meeting with his colleagues who attended the funeral of the late Olufunke Olakunrin, daughter of Afenifere leader, Pa Reuben Fasoranti, in Akure. The pronouncement was sequel to the recommendations of a recent regional security summit in Ibadan, Oyo State. However, there has been palpable apprehension over reports that herdsmen and members of the Myetti Allah had been co-opted into vigilance groups to tackle insecurity in Ondo State. But the Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Donald Ojogo, in a statement, allayed the fear. Besides, the Bishop of Akure Diocese of the Anglican Church, Simeon Borokini, has submitted that nobody is safe or happy any longer in Nigeria. He gave the damning verdict in his homily at Olakunrin’s burial. The 58-year-old was killed on July 12, 2019 along Ore-Benin expressway by suspected herdsmen while returning to Lagos from Ondo State. Hinging his sermon on finality of death, the cleric decried the frightening insecurity in the country, urging government at all levels to be more proactive by ensuring protection of lives and property. The well-attended event held at the St. David’s Cathedral Anglican Church, Akure where dignitaries from all walks of life took turns to pay their last respects to the departed described variously by many as humble, loving, urbane, homely, kind and respectful. In an emotion-charged environment, Olakunri’s remains were eventually lowered at the church cemetery in the Ondo capital. A good number of mourners, who spoke, joined the officiating minister in the clarion call for normalcy in the land, lamenting that Olakunri was mowed in her prime. The widower, Mr. Idowu Olakunrin, amid intermittent weeping, surrendered that it would be hard for the family to recover from the loss. He, however, pointed that the ‘irredeemable loss’ notwithstanding, they take solace in her ‘numerous’ legacies. “You survived many challenges. This was not a challenge but a home call. I don’t like the way it came at all because it didn’t allow us time to say goodbye, show affection and make an effort to prolong the day. “Sleep well my wife. I will never be the same again, this I know,” he sobbed. In his remarks, former Minister of Aviation, Chief Femi Fani-Kayode, implored the Federal Government to be more alive to securing the land and its people. Present at the occasion included governors of Ondo, Ogun, Lagos, Ekiti and Oyo states, Rotimi Akeredolu; Dapo Abiodun; Babajide Sanwo-Olu; Kayode Fayemi; and Seyi Makinde. Others were erstwhile governors of Ondo and Ekiti states, Olusegun Mimiko and Segun Oni and Fani-Kayode among other prominent Nigerians. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .