Pinnick with some of the AFCON Super Eagles squad Nigeria’s football governing body president, Amaju Pinnick, Thursday was removed as first Vice President of the Confederation of African Football (CAF). The decision was taken during the body’s Executive Committee meeting in Cairo. Pinnick’s removal came a day after CAF’s executive committee agreed to allow FIFA Secretary General take charge of the administration of the confederation for a period of six months. The agreement confirmed the appointment of FIFA Secretary General Fatma Samoura as a General Delegate for Africa, which is in furtherance of recent developments regarding governance structures within the African body. Pinnick, however, said he was not removed. He said his tenure was not renewed by the confederation’s boss Ahmad Ahmad. “The term of the 1st, 2nd & 3rd Vice-Presidents of the Confederation of African Football expires after two years, in line with Article 22(4) of the CAF statutes,” Pinnick said on  Thursday. “My renewal was not proposed by the CAF President and I’m in total agreement with that decision as well.” NFF spokesman said the decision not propose a term renewal for Pinnick was due to a difference in focus between Ahmad and his now-former number 2 man.
“Significantly, the renewal of Pinnick’s tenure was not proposed by the CAF President because of fundamental differences on focus and direction,” said Ademola Olajire. He added that Pinnick accepted the CAF President decision as it aligned with his own view, having considered “matters surrounding the administration of African Football which has dovetailed into the Nigerian Football space’’. The NFF said further that Pinnick would, however, remain a bonafide member of the CAF Executive Committee to continue with his mandate as such. It quoted Pinnick as accepting the situation by saying: “It has however been an excellent opportunity to serve as the number two football administrator in the entire African continent. “My commitment to the game is perpetual, while my support for my colleagues in the Executive Committee remains steadfast.’’ Pinnick’s removal means a reshuffling of the positions of the other vice-presidents, Constant Omari of DR Congo and Moroccan Faouzi Lekjaa. Omari who is the President of the Congolese Football Federation (FECOFA) will move up from Second Vice-President to First Vice-President. Lekjaa who heads the Moroccan federation and was Third Vice-President becomes Second Vice-President. Jordaan will now act as the Third Vice-President. However, Lekjaa is facing a possible ban by CAF after the Ethiopian Football Federation accused the Moroccan federation president of assaulting a referee. The incident occurred after the 2018/2019 African Champions League final match between Wydad Casablanca and Tunisia’s Esperance. After CAF’s Disciplinary Committee failed to reach a verdict earlier this month, the case was sent back to the ruling body.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .