With the issue of rape and sexual molestation currently a trending issue, everybody especially women need to be conversant about different ways to avoid getting raped or sexually assaulted. The use of drugs is one of the ways rapists employ to assist them in their nefarious activity and these drugs are quite powerful and dangerous. Known as date rape drugs, they can be slipped into your drink when you are not looking and because the drugs often have no colour, smell, or taste, it is hard for you to tell you are being drugged until the deed has been done. Before you go on your next date or take that drink from that ‘perfect gentleman’, here are some date rape drugs, their street names as well as effects on your body that you should know about. Gamma Hydroxybutyrate Acid | Photo – Twitter Usually made by people in a home or street lab, and a small amount of GHB can have a major effect as it is a very potent drug. It is quite easy to overdose on GHB and the street names for GHB are Grievous Bodily Harm, Liquid G, Easy Lay, Liquid Ecstasy, Georgia Home Boy and Great Hormones at Bedtime. It takes effect in about 15 minutes and can last between three to four hours. GHB can cause these problems: Ketamine | Photo – Pinterest This is a very fast-acting drug and boasts of the street names Special K, Vitamin K, KitKat and Purple Bump. Under the effect of this drug, you might be aware of what is going on around you but usually, you are unable to move and it more often than not causes memory problems as you might not be able to remember what happened while you were drugged. Ketamine can cause these problems: Rohypnol | Photo – Twitter Known on the street as Roofies, R-2s, Roches, the Forget-Me pill, Whiteys, and Mind-Eraser, the effects of this potent drug can be felt within 30 minutes of being taken in and usually last for several hours. Under the influence of the drug, there is a tendency for you to act like a drunk and have trouble standing. Other effects include slurred speech or unconsciousness. Rohypnol can cause these problems: