The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Tuesday has hit at President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress over the 43-man ministerial nominees’ list. The opposition party said the list was uninspiring and devoid of any sense of “purposeful governance”. “The list has further shown President Buhari and APC’s insensitivity and disdain for Nigerians and it does not in any way reflect their hope and eagerness for a better Nigeria,” PDP said in a statement. Nigerian Senate president Ahmed Lawan announced the list of ministerial nominees by President Buhari, who was sworn in for a second term over two months ago. PDP said that the list was filled with “incompetent individuals who failed in their erstwhile ministerial assignments and left their ministries in a shambles”. In the ministerial nominees’ list, Buhari listed former ministers such as Chris Ngige, Hadi Sirika, Rotimi Amaechi, Adamu Adamu, Mohammed Adamu, Babatunde Fashola and Lai Mohammed. Others in the list are Uche Ogah, Emeka Nwajuiba, Sadiya Farouk, Musa Bello, Godswill Akpabio, Sharon Ikeazor, Ogbonnaya Onu, Akpa Udo, and Adebayo (Ekiti). Also, Timipre Sylva, Adamu Adamu, Shewuye (Borno), Isa Pantami, Gbemi Saraki, Ramatu Tijani, Clement Abam were also declared as part of the nominees. Paullen Tallen, Abubakar Aliyu, Sale Mamman, Abubakar Malami, Muhammed Mamood, Rauf Aregbesola, Mustapha Buba Jedi Agba, Olamilekan Adegbite, and Mohammed Dangyadi. However, PDP described the nominees as yesterday’s men being recycled for today’s assignment. The opposition party opined that it had no doubts that President Buhari and his party- All Progressives Congress (APC) have no vision to improve the country economically and security-wise. Instead, PDP said Buhari nominated persons that will help him conceal corruption in his administration and channel funds to groups used to rig the 2019 elections. “A committed and responsive leadership would have widely consulted with Nigerians before compiling a ministerial list, given the current situation in the country,” PDP said. “Strangely, the list has no space for the youths demography, those to whom the future is said to belong.” The opposition party said the only hope for Nigerians is the retrieval of the ‘stolen mandate’ of its presidential candidate Atiku Abubakar at the presidential election tribunal. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .