Sensational Nigerian songbird, Simi has been very critical and vocal about certain social issues in times past and she does not appear to have plans to stop anytime soon. The award-winning singer in a recent Instagram post has condemned any act of violence against women and children whom she says are the most vulnerable people in society. In her post, the star attempts to create awareness about the abuse women suffer and how they are silenced by family, the church and the government. While acknowledging that men also suffer abuse, women and children are more susceptible to abuse and as such should be protected. She wrote: “Women, even little girls, are not safe in this country!!! First, there is oppression, abuse – when something does happen to you, nobody fights for you. The family says “protect our name”, the church says “touch not my anointed”. The government just does not give a f#ck!!! So men, please when people are fighting for women, say they are feminist and want equal rights for women, I hope you remember how unprotected they are and fight with them!!! Women, when you see another woman fighting for you and your rights, if you don’t like the approach, f#ck the approach!!! Don’t bash them because you think everything is about submission!!! Your life is constantly at stake! if it hasn’t touched you yet, count your blessings! Open your eyes! The world does not favour you. Fight back. As for these animals, you can only slap and rape for so long! One by one judgment will find you and drag you down! I know men go through sexual assault too! I acknowledge it, but women and children are more vulnerable. Let’s fight for and protect the most vulnerable in society!!” Simi’s post is coming in the wake of a video surfacing online showing a serving senator, Elisha Abbo who is Nigeria’s youngest senator slapping a woman several times in a shop. The video footage has since sparked outrage with many Nigerians asking that he be recalled from the Senate by his constituency although he has since said his team will release a ‘robust statement’ to address the situation. Simi’s post may also not be unrelated to the recent rape allegation against Pastor Biodun Fatoyinbo of Commonwealth of Zion Assembly (COZA). Busola Dakolo, the wife of Nigerian singer, Timi Dakolo alleged the cleric raped her as a teenager and this has been generating reactions online.