Golf character of Ibadan Golf Club. The ever-busy Ibadan Golf Club will next week hold the second edition of its two-day kitty in aid of the fight against cancer. Tagged ‘Cancer Awareness Golf Tournament,’ the competition will hold on July 12 and13 with about 200 players from across the country vying for honours in the event, where two cancer survivors will win all expense paid trip to United Arad Emirate (UAE) courtesy of one of the sponsors, Ufit Fly. The tourney was conceptualised by a concerned golfer, Lizzy Afonja, who revealed that she has lost scores of loved ones to cancer, adding that enough awareness about the effect of cancer could reduce the scourge. Speaking ahead of the tournament, Afonja grieved over the loss of over 20 people to the deadly decease, which made her to champion an advocacy on the awareness against cancer. “The golf tournament is to carry out advocacies against the deadly disease called cancer; it is killing people around us irrespective of the ages or background. “The campaign is to enlighten people how to go about it if its symptoms are noticed in their body. “Consulting for advice from medical practitioners should be the first
thing to do and not going to spiritualists for prayers. I am not saying people should not pray about cancer cases but seeking immediate medical solution should be the first step, many have lost their lives from ill-advices from pastors, who told them not to go for surgery.” She added that cancer “can happen in any part of your body. “It is very painful to me because I have lost many loved ones to cancer… for the past 20 years I have lost over 20 friends, this year alone I have lost two friends, and last year I lost three friends. That was why I came up with this idea to use golf to advocate for cancer awareness whereby doctors will come around and enlighten us about scourge,” Afonja said. Still savouring the success recorded during the first edition held last year, where the former first lady of Oyo State, Chief Mrs. Florence Ajimobi and first lady of Ondo State, Mrs. Akeredolu came to counsel the participants, Afonja said: “Friday is cocktail party and two hours session with doctors that will talk to us on cancer awareness. “An alternative therapy person will also teach us what to eat and avoid in order to live a cancer free life, while the tournament and prize presentation would be held on Saturday.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .