 [FILES] Four years after two medical doctors were allegedly killed in a car accident on Ondo/Ore road, a driver, Taiwo Suberu, will know his fate on July 24.  Suberu was accused of killing two medical doctors – Femi Ogunbodede and Olukoju Oluwaseyi Abdulrasaq – in an accident that occurred four years ago. The court presided over by Mrs. A.B.T. Oyedele, fixed the date after she expressed disappointment over the continued delay of the trial since 2016. Suberu had on June 29, 2015, along Ondo/Ore road had an accident, which led to the death of the two doctors. However, the case had suffered many adjournments since charges were preferred against the accused, prompting the Magistrate to express worry over the incessant adjournments on the part of the defence counsel, Mr. Yinka Adeyosoye. Magistrate Oyedele had said that she was ready with the matter on July 24 whether the accused was represented by a lawyer or not. She, however, counseled the accused person to pay the lawyer his bill if that had been responsible for the absence of the defense lawyer in court. Suberu was accused by the office of the State Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice of reckless driving. The charge filed by Mr. Wale Bamisile, a Principal Legal Officer in the Ministry of Justice stated that Suberu dangerously overtook a Toyota Camry car with Registration Lagos LND 417 CU, Dr. Ogunbodede was traveling in, causing a fatal accident that led to the death of the two doctors, who were occupants of the car. The 85-year-old father of Ogunbodede, John Ogunbodede, told newsmen at his FESTAC Town residence in Lagos that his son was going to resume at the general hospital in the town at about 8:00 a.m. when the accident happened. “When my son graduated as a medical doctor from Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, it was joy and happiness in the family. But since four years ago, I have been bedridden. I think of my son on a daily basis, regretting telling him to work in my home state. It was because of the love I have for the home state that prompted me to advise him to go to Ondo to ply his trade. I did not know that by sending my son to Ondo, I would send him to his death. I am regretting it,” he lamented. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .