Soursop photo loopjamaica.com Soursop is a tropical fruity which has a thick prickly flesh with sweet soar taste. Most Nigerians pronounce it as “shawa chop”, it is eaten in its raw form by most people. This fruit has many health benefits and few of them are below. Soursop is filled with antioxidants. These antioxidants, especially vitamins C and E, zinc, and beta-carotene, have been found to decrease the risk of eye disease. The antioxidants also reduce oxidative stress, which can otherwise cause cataracts and other eye related issues. It can treat infections caused by bacteria and parasites. The leaves of the soursop tree are also used to treat a wide range of infections.  The leaves are squeezed to bring out the liquid extract of the leaves which is medicinal and can be taken either orally or applied to the infected area. The acetogenins in soursop can kill the malignant cells of 12 types of cancer, with liver cancer being one of them. Soursop can be used extensively for the treatment of stress and other issues like depression. It is also found to have antiulcer properties. The fruit suppresses oxidative damage and preserves the mucus of the gastric wall. The significant antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties of the fruit can help improve gastrointestinal health. The juice of the soursop fruit provides more micronutrients than its pulp. The pulp has more amount of vitamin A than the juice. It is also rich in ascorbic acid (vitamin C) that strengthens and boosts the immune system. Beta-carotene that is present in this fruit also contributes to an enhanced immune system. The extract of soursop leaves can help prevent skin papilloma, a disease that causes tumour eruptions on the skin. The leaves of the plant are used for calming the skin of babies. Its paste can work wonders for hair, it is used for treating dandruff and itching, and strengthening hair as well. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment Are there other health benefits of this fruit that you know? You can drop them below.