Grammy award-winning rapper, Cardi B met with US presidential aspirant Bernie Sanders yesterday, July 29  to film a 2020 presidential campaign video. Arriving for the shoot which was shot at the TEN Nail Bar, the 2020 US elections presidential aspirant told CNN that the campaign was aimed at appealing to young voters He said: “We (are) working on a way to involve more young people in the political process. The future of America depends on young people. They are voting in large numbers, but not large enough numbers.” Sanders said he and Cardi B spoke about a range of issues, including canceling student debt, climate change and raising the minimum wage. After their meeting, Cardi B took to Instagram to thank Sanders. She added that she asked the senator questions submitted by her fans and hinted to “stay tuned to see how he will fight for economic, racial, and social justice for all.” Sharing a photo of them sitting together, deep in discussion, Cardi B wrote: Bernie Sanders and Cardi B | Photo – Instagram “Not me, US. Thank you Senator Bernie Sanders for sitting with me and sharing your plans on how you will change this country. A couple of weeks ago I asked my followers if you had the opportunity to have a question answered by a democratic candidate what would it be? I got a lot of submissions and selected the most popular questions to get answered. Stay tuned to see how he will fight for economic, racial, and social justice for all. Together, let’s build a movement of young people to transform this country. LET’S LEARN OUR CANDIDATES!” It would be recalled that earlier this month, Cardi B was complimentary of the senator. “I been reading about Bernie Sanders and I’m really sad how we let him down in 2016,” she tweeted. “This man been fighting for equal rights, HUMAN rights for such along time. Seeing this country become a better place been really his passion for a long time not a new front for a campaign.” Last week, during an appearance on The Jimmy Kimmel Show, when asked about Cardi B’s support, Sanders told late night host Jimmy Kimmel he had spoken to the rapper on the phone on “several occasions.” “She is really smart. And she is deeply concerned about what’s happening in this country. She wants to make sure we improve life for working people in this country, and I’m delighted that she is a supporter.” Sanders said. The mutual admiration dates to April 2018, when Cardi B praised President Franklin Delano Roosevelt for being “the real ‘Make America Great Again’ ” during a GQ interview. That statement caught the eye Sanders, who frequently refers to Roosevelt in his arguments for Democratic socialism and his single-payer “Medicare for All” plan. “Cardi B is right,” Sanders tweeted at the time. When asked Monday what it would mean to have Cardi B’s endorsement, Sanders said: “What it means is that, what Cardi B does is not only is she an enormously popular entertainer what she is doing is speaking to young people about the important issues that are on their minds and I applaud that very much.” Although the Vermont senator hasn’t revealed whether Cardi B had officially endorsed him, he was asked by Jon Favreau on “Pod Save America” last week whether she would perform at his inauguration. Sanders replied: “We’re putting together a committee to take a look at that.”