 Madagascar’s players react after winning the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (CAN) Group B football match between Madagascar and Nigeria at the Alexandria  Stadium on June 30, 2019. (Photo by Giuseppe CACACE / AFP) Madagascar’s forward Faneva Andriatsima (L) and Madagascar’s forward Tsilavina Njiva (R) pour water on Madagascar’s coach Nicolas Dupuis (C) as they celebrate winning  the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (CAN) Group B football match between Madagascar and Nigeria at the Alexandria  Stadium on June 30, 2019. (Photo by Giuseppe CACACE / AFP)  Even at that, you have to be careful because the cats here are smart. They swallow everything within a second and always seek for more. I lost a precious piece of chicken to one smart pussycat on my first day here, but since then, I am wiser.  At times, I start the negotiation in Urhobo language. Mavor, I asked one of them. “I don’t speak English,” he responded. But you just spoke English, I fired back. It forced a little smile on his face. Then, our negotiation began. That is one of the tricks I use in dealing with the Lada ‘brothers’ here. The big different in exchange rate between the Naira, Egyptian Pounds and US dollar is affecting us here. By and large, majority of the people are hospitable to visitors, unlike the situation we encountered in 2006. Tourists, tourists everywhere
The number of tourists trooping into the city of Alexandria on daily basis is alarming. Unlike the situation in Lagos, where the famous bar beach in Victoria Island and others around the city have been converted to residential areas, the Mediterranean sea shore in Alexandria is a beehive of activities for thousands of tourists.
 
With small tents constructed on the sound around the beach, the tourists, who come from different parts of the world, find pleasure in the area on daily basis. Some Egyptians who spoke with The Guardian said the government of Alexandria generates more income from tourism every year than other sectors of its economy.
 
Apart from the government, the indigenes also smile to the bank every hour by selling foodstuff, souvenirs and photographing. The various airlines, particularly EgyptAir, cab drivers, hoteliers and restaurant owners are not left out.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .