 Switzerland’s Roger Federer reacts during an ATP Madrid Open round of 64 tennis match against France’s Richard Gasquet at the Caja Magica in Madrid on May 7, 2019. (Photo by OSCAR DEL POZO / AFP)  America’s Alison Riske outlasted top seeded Australia’s Ashleigh Barty 3/6, 6/2, 6/3, for a major upset in the ladies draw, after the ouster of second seeded Naomi Osaka in the first round. It was a day of victory for China as Shuai Zhang reached the last eight for the first time by defeating Ukraine’s Dayana Yastremska 6/4, 1/6, 6/2, just as Serena Williams continued her march with a 6/2, 6/2 victory over Spain’s Carla Suarez-Navarro Nadal raced through the first set 6/2, despite Sousa’s high 76 per cent success in first serves with three aces. The Spaniard’s returns from way behind the baseline did not allow his opponent to win points on serves. Sousa dropped the opening game of second set and Nadal held serve to lead 2-0 and proceeded to 3-1. Sousa struggled to save four break points before holding for 3-2. A crucial break of Sousa’s serve in the seventh game had Nadal serving out the set 6-2. In the third set, Sousa took his service game and Nadal leveled at one-all. Although Sousa registered his third ace to lead 30-15, Nadal broke to lead 2-1 and stretched the lead to 4-2.   Sousa reached 40-30 on his serve but was denied the seventh game, which Nadal won for 5-2. Serving for the match, Nadal did not drop a point and closed out the match with an ace. The top seeded Barty held serve to lead 2-1 in the first set and broke Riske’s serve for 3-1. She extended the lead to 4-1 with her seventh ace.  Alison struggled through three-game opportunities before holding the sixth game.  The two players dropped the next two service games and Barty served out the set 5-3. In the second set, the American broke to lead 3-1 and survived a long game to reach 4-1. Riske won the second set with a break of Barty’s serve.
The first three games of the third set went quickly with serve but Barty was taken to deuce before leveling at two-all, while Riske survived two break points before holding for 3-2. After Barty leveled three-all, Riske took the seventh game and broke Barty’s serve for 5-3. The American lady won the ninth game for the match and admission into “the last Eight Club” at Wimbledon. In the losing effort, Barty hammered 12 aces and committed three double-faults. Riske registered only three aces and no double fault. The opening day of Wimbledon’s second week yielded a harvest of upsets. The home country has the delight of Johanna Konta’s 4/6, 6/2, 6/4 upset of Petra Kvitova, a former champion and the sixth seed. In a battle of compatriots, Karolina Muchova defeated fellow Czech and the third seed, Karolina Pliskova 4/6, 7/5, 13/11. Barbora Strycova of Czech Republic defeated Belgium’s Elise Mertens 4/6, 7/5, 6/2.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .