Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi (second right); Chaplain, YABATECH, Lagos, Very Rev. Olumuyiwa Awe (left); Prelate, Methodist Church, Nigeria, His Eminence, Dr. Samuel Chukwuemeka Kanu Uche (second left) and Bishop of Ayedun Diocese, Rt. Rev. Dr. Abejide during a courtesy visit by the Prelate in Ado-Ekiti…on Friday • Says Church In Nigeria Will Sever Relationship If Practice Is Implemented
The Prelate of the Methodist Church Nigeria, Dr. Samuel Chukwuemeka Kanu Uche, has denounced the decision of the Methodist Church in Great Britain to embrace same sex marriage and all other forms of gay and lesbianism, describing them as immoral, unethical and unacceptable. Uche, who made the condemnation at a press briefing in Lagos, described it as a retrogressive step for a nation that brought Christianity to Africa and laid down firm guidelines on conducts expected of Christians. He said: “To our chagrin and disappointment, we read from the Church Times, which is a British publication that the British Methodist Church has adopted in principle, gay marriage and have directed their ministers to join people in marriage. We, of the Methodist Church, see it as absurd, un-African, unscriptural, unethical, pagan, immoral, indecent and therefore, unacceptable behaviour by the people of Nigeria, and Africa. “The British told us that polygamy, polygyny, and polyandry were bad, so why are they going back? Why are they becoming morally and spiritually depraved? If they go ahead to ratify it in 2020, that will be the straw that can break the camel’s back. We will sever relationship and connection with them and stand on our own. “If they are no longer having moral fiber, they should invite us to come and re-Christianise them. We are ready to do that. We will send missionaries to them because we believe that this move is satanic and coming from the pit of hell. “We are happy that the United Methodist Church voted overwhelmingly against same sex marriage in the conference held in November last year.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .