 Gboyega Oyetola. Photo/facebook/Gboyeg-Oyetola  The All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday expressed satisfaction with the ruling of the Supreme Court affirming the election of Gboyega Oyetola as the Governor of Osun State. The party, in a statement by its national publicity secretary, Lanre Issa-Onilu congratulated Oyetola and the Osun State chapter of  the party for successfully defending what Issa-Onilu termed the legitimate mandate handed to them by the citizenry in the state. The statement reads in part: “This ruling now cements the majority status of progressive governors in the country. Undoubtedly a closely- contested election, we commend the apex court’s decision, which is in tandem with the choice of the Osun State electorate who voted for continuity and our Party’s Change Agenda. “The ruling will now allow the Governor Oyetola-led APC administration in Osun State focus on the core business of governance and implementing the many pro-people developmental plans for the state.
   
“Finally, we seek the cooperation of all stakeholders in the state; particularly the political actors to support the Governor Oyetola administration in its bid to develop the state.” However, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has expressed shock over the verdict, noting that “the fact that the Supreme Court had a split judgment also speaks volumes on its verdict in this matter.”The party, in a statement released by its national publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, noted, “Our study of the judgment however shows that the Supreme Court did not negate the position of the PDP and millions of Nigerians that our candidate, Senator Ademola Adeleke won the election, but based its verdict on reservations over issues of technicalities arising at the 
election petition tribunal.” The party also said it “stands with overwhelming majority of Nigerians  on that undeniable fact that the people of Osun State, by the votes cast  at the poll, preferred Senator Adeleke as their governor. “The PDP, as a law-abiding party, however, urges the people of Osun State  to remain united, calm and not lose hope in our democratic process and the quest for a government that truly represents their wishes and aspirations.” Meanwhile, Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi has congratulated Osun State Governor, Gboyega Oyetola, over yesterday’s Supreme Court ruling that validated his election as the governor of the state. Fayemi described the ruling of the apex court as an affirmation of the people’s will as expressed through their votes in the 2018 governorship election in the state. Fayemi in a statement also congratulated the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the people of Osun State for remaining calm and optimistic all through the judicial process, urging Oyetola to be magnanimous in victory and extend a hand of fellowship to his opponent in the bid to move the state forward. “It is a great day for democracy. The highest court in the country has finally settled the controversies surrounding the Osun governorship election and affirmed Governor Oyetola as the true winner of the election.“Hearty congratulations to my brother Governor, Oyetola. A bigger congratulations to the people of Osun State, who are the real winners in the context. Fayemi said he is convinced that Governor Oyetola will take the state to the next level of development and prosperity, giving his pedigree as an astute manager of men and resources and as a leader who has genuine passion for development. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .