Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) for Nigeria’s 2019 election, has on Friday, reacted to the defeat of Osun governorship candidate, Ademola Adeleke to the candidate of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Gboyega Oyetola after he was affirmed Osun state governor by the Supreme court. “I join with people of goodwill all over Nigeria to say to Senator Ademola Adeleke, and the people of the great state of Osun, that we stand with them in good times and in difficult days. Atiku contested in the just concluded general election but lost Muhammadu Buhari of the (APC). Atiku who is also a staunch critic of Buhari’ s administration extended his gratitude to those who stood by Adeleke during his tough times. According to him, the law has declared its verdict and nothing can be done about it. He, however, advised the judiciary to ensure they carry out their responsibility in fairness, regardless of the external pressure. “The Supreme Court has ruled and because of its judicial finality, the legal case is over.” “Finally, I urge the nation’s judiciary to take a pulse of the nation and reflect it. In their hands, God has placed a great responsibility. The duty to ensure that justice is done, irrespective of the pressure to do otherwise, by the powers that be.” Senator Adeleke filed a petition challenging Oyetola’s victory at the Osun gubernatorial election which was held on September 22, 2018. In a split judgment of two to one, the tribunal ruled that INEC was wrong to have ordered a rerun election. It nullified the rerun that led to Oyetola’s victory and declared Adeleke the winner of the election. Oyetola appealed the decision and got the decision overturned. Dissatisfied with the decision of the appellate court, Adeleke challenged the decision at the Supreme Court. However, the Supreme Court validated the election of Gboyega Oyetola as the governor of Osun State on July 5 2019.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .