An eight-year-old girl, Aisha Sani, who was kidnapped two weeks ago in Tudunwada quarters of Kano State by an unknown lady, was  found dead yesterday. Aisha, who was abducted when they closed from an Islamiyya School with her siblings, was taken away by another lady who covered her face with veil and no formal communication was made with her parents for three days. A week later, a text message was said to have been sent to her parents; informing them that she was in good health and they should not be bothered. But two days ago, according to a family member, who did not want his name in print, the kidnappers demanded N200 million as ransom. The kidnappers further requested that the ransom should be given to her mother who would now take the money to them. After two weeks of intensified search, Aisha’s body was on Monday found, as she was hacked to death by her kidnappers. Her parents have since taken custody of her body for burial. When contacted, the state police command said they were investigating the matter and that whoever was behind the dastardly act would be fished out. It would be recalled that barely two weeks ago, the Kano police command arrested three teenagers for allegedly abducting and killing a five-year-old boy, Ahmad Ado. According to the Commissioner of Police in the state, Ahmed Iliyasu, the suspects: Ibrahim Ahmad, 20; Abdumajid Mohammed, 18; and Musa Sanusi, 18 on July 10 at 1:30p.m. kidnapped the deceased at Ma’ahat Nursery and Primary School, Karkasara Quarters, Kano. After abducting the boy, the kidnappers contacted his family and demanded N50 million as ransom. Iliyasu explained that a team of Operation Puff Adder detectives from anti-kidnapping squad immediately swung into action, using technical intelligence, and succeeded in apprehending the suspects, who then led the team to where the boy was buried in an uncompleted building. Meanwhile, two armed robbery suspects were on Monday killed during a robbery operation in Benin, the Edo State capital. The police had last week killed two teenage car snatchers during a gun-battle with the police in a robbery operation. It was gathered that the hoodlums were killed at Ekehuan community near Asoro hill. The state Commissioner of Police, DanMallam Muhammed, confirmed the incident to The Guardian. It was further gathered that a member of the robbery gang simply identified as Junior, escaped with gunshot injury. It was learnt that while the robbers were carrying out their operation, some members of the public placed a distress call to the police, who immediately swung into action, leading to a gun-battle. Muhammed said: “Yes, two armed robbers were killed during operation and the police recovered their guns and ammunition. There was distress call, the police responded and met them in the act. So, when they sighted the police, they started firing and the police responded and in the process they were gunned down.” The police boss called on members of the public to continue to collaborate with the police in the bid to rid the state of crime and criminality. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .