 Burna Boy | Photo – Zikoko  It was announced at the ongoing annual Under 30 Meet-Up at the Houghton Hotel in Johannesburg, South Africa. For the first time since inception, the annual watch-list has 120 young African change-makers, instead of the usual 90 from the previous years. The 2019 list showcases 24 Nigerians in each of the four categories, business, technology, creatives, and sport. Commenting on the change, Renuka Methil, the Managing Editor of Forbes Africa said, “It was the moment we had all been waiting for, unveiling the 120 innovators who are changing the old rules of the game and forging forward. The Forbes Africa 30 Under 30 list has over the last five years come to be a highly respected and sought-after collection of tomorrow’s leaders today. These brilliant minds are listed under four categories. As such, there are four different covers for each category. This year’s list includes musician Burna boy, footballer Alex Iwobi, Ijeoma Balogun of Redrick PR and Charles Edosomwan of TekSight Edge Limited amongst others. Charles, 29, who said he was honoured to be on this year’s list, founded TekSight Edge, a technology PR firm in 2014 and now operates in Ghana, Kenya, and Rwanda with a total of 32 staff. Saying he aims to leave a positive and lasting impression in the African Tech space, he is also the founder of Askifa.ng and Demystifying Technology, a spoken word hangout for students and spoken word artists. At just 19, Ijeoma became the style editor of BellaNaija before venturing into public relations and founding her own company, Redrick PR in 2012. Ijeoma said she started her business in her father’s study with no funds and a lot of ideas to change the Nigerian PR world. Now 29 with a team of four, Ijeoma has worked with a wide variety of clients and startups including the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, Federal Ministry of Communication and Technology, Jumia Nigeria, MAC Cosmetics and Coca Cola. She is also the founder of Redrick Accelerate Workshops (RAW), a platform that hosts free workshops and training to improve employability amongst Nigerian youths and has impacted almost 200 people so far. Here are the other Nigerians who made the Forbes Africa 30 under 30 list for 2019. For Business category, Adeniyi Omotayo, 28, Founder & CEO Betensured Group, Ogechukwu Anugo-Obah, 28, Founder & CEO of Bodylikemilk, Bright Jaja, 29, Founder & CEO of iCreate Africa, Henrich Akomolafe, 26, Co-Founder & Managing Director of Akotex Nigeria Limited, Oginni Tolulope, 29, Founder & CEO of Transfurd Limited, Barbara Okereke, 28, Cake Designer, Founder & Managing Director of Oven Secret Limited, Jessica Anuna, 27, Founder & CEO of Klasha, Charles Edosomwan, 29, Founder & Chief Strategist of TekSight Edge Limited and Adetola Nola, 29, Founder and CEO Veritasi Properties Limited. Alex Iwobi, 23, Footballer is the only Nigerian under the sports category. Creatives category include Richard Akuson, 26, Founder and Editor, A Nasty Boy, Burna boy, 28, Musician, Helen Chukwu, 25, Fashion Designer, Founder and CEO, Helen Couture and Abisola Akintunde, 28, Founder and creative director, MakeupbyAshabee and Beelashes Technology category include Evans Akanno, 29, Founder and CEO, Cregital, Fred Oyetayo, 25, Founder and CEO, Fresible, Damilola Olokesusi, 29, co-Founder and CEO, Shuttlers Logistics Company, Chinedu Azodoh, 29, Co-Founder, Metro Africa Express (MAX), Muhammed Salisu Abdullahi, 28, Co-founder, Managing Director, eTrash2Cash, Silas Adekunle, 26, Founder, Reach Robotics, Joshua Chibueze, Odunayo Eweniyi 26 and Somto Ifezue, 28, Founders, PiggyVest, Uka Eje, Co-Founder, CEO, Thrive Agric and Chika Madubuko, 27, Co-Founder, CEO, Greymate Care. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .