Olatilu In a major onslaught against rapists, operatives of the Lagos State police command have arrested two men who allegedly raped their 19-year and 15-year old daughters, alongside a pastor who impregnated a 15-year-old girl. The Lagos State police spokesman, Bala Elkana, who confirmed the arrests, noted that on June 14, at about 1:00p.m. the survivor (names withheld) aged 19, alleged that her step-father, one Akin Olatilu has been sexually abusing her since when she was 14 years old. “She alleged further that she reported the matter to her mother but her mother did not take any action, adding that the abuse continued until she turned 18, with the suspect still having sexual intercourse with her in March 2019. “She said when she turned down his request in June, he lied against her to her mother and she was beaten up by her mother, which caused her to speak out.” Another 68-year-old man was arrested for allegedly raping his 15-year-old daughter. According to Elkana, “on June 27, at about 2:00p.m. the victim (name withheld) reported a case of defilement at Imota Police Station against her father, one Yisah Showunmi, 68. The survivor alleged that her father has been having sexual intercourse with her for the past three years. She further alleged that when her two friends (names withheld) ages 15 and 16 came to stay in their house, her father also had sexual intercourse with them. She further noted that the last incident occurred on June 23. The suspect, however, confessed to the crime. Showunmi In the same vein, the police also arrested one Pastor Pope Paul for allegedly raping and impregnating a 15-year-old girl. It was gathered that on July 2, at about 3:00p.m. mother of the survivor (names withheld) from Akure, Ondo State, reported at Igando Police Station, against one Pastor Pope Paul of No 10/11, Aminu Street, Ishuti Road, Egan, Igando, Lagos. The complainant alleged that sometime in August, 2017, her daughter (names withheld) was brought to Lagos to live with the suspect and his wife. “She discovered that the survivor was pregnant sometime in June 2018 and that when she interrogated her, she mentioned the name of the suspect. The survivor stated in her statement that it all started in January 2018 when the suspect started having sexual intercourse with her, and got her pregnant. She stated further that she gave birth to a baby girl in April, 2019. In yet another bizarre harvest of rape incidents, another man was arrested for raping a girl in an uncompleted building in the state. Making the revelation, Elkana said: “On July 2, at about 12noon, one Harrison Chukwereuke of Peace Estate reported at Iba Police Station that he caught one Aliyu Ali Mohammed having sexual intercourse with a 14- year-old girl (names withheld) inside an uncompleted building in the estate”. All suspects are in police custody and would be charged to court. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .