Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State on Monday expressed concern over the issue of security in the country. The governor expressed the concern when he played host to the Chief of Army Staff, Lt- Gen. Tukur Buratai, at the Lagos House, Alausa. He described the issue as a major challenge and urged the Nigerian Army to continue to put in more efforts in addressing it. Sanwo-Olu, nonetheless, commended officers and men of the Nigerian Army for the role they were already playing in the securing the lives and property of Nigerians. According to him, Nigeria will only be able to attract foreign investments if the problem of insecurity is given the serious attention it deserves “Issue of security in the state and the nation is critical to all of us. It is something we have to take seriously. “It is only when the country is safe and secure that foreign direct investments will come in, and we citizens will be able to go about our lawful businesses and, create wealth and development,” Sanwo-Olu said. While stating that the contributions of the army to security in the country were not being taken for granted, he encouraged the officers and men to continue their selfless service to their fatherland. The governor particularly made reference to the environmental sanitation conducted in the state on Saturday by troops under the 81 Division as part of the annual Army Day celebrations. He expressed the hope that other professionals in the state would emulate them, pledging that his administration would be looking out for more areas of collaboration with the military. “As a government, we are willing and able to support the military and all the security formations in whatever area or form,” he said. Earlier, Buratai had intimated the governor about the activities lined up for the ongoing Army Day celebrations and combat support arms training week in Lagos. He assured the governor that the army would continue to render necessary support to ensure peace in the state and the country at large. The army chief disclosed that another security strategy tagged “Operation Crocodile Smile” would be held in Lagos later in the year,. He called for partnership between the state government and the Nigerian Army Corps of Engineers in the area of infrastructural development in the state. According to him, the army engineers in some other states have contributed to the provision of infrastructure, especially roads, in addition to security of lives and property. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .