• Targets 70.1 million cement bags sales
Aiming to better the lives of millions of consumers in the cement industry, Nigeria’s leading cement brand, Dangote Cement, plans to empower about 21 million consumers in a mega promo.
 
The promo, which runs from July to September, will enrich consumers with prizes worth billions of Naira, comprising 43 cars, 24 tricycles, 24 motorcycles, 550 refrigerators, 400 television sets, 300,000 Dangote foods goodies packs, and recharge cards for all networks worth N200 million.
  
Speaking in a media parley to unveil the jumbo consumer promo tagged, “Dangote Cement Bag of Goodies,” yesterday, in Lagos, the Group Managing Director, Dangote Cement Plc, Joseph Makoju, represented by the Group Executive Director, Dangote Industries Limited, Knut Ulvmoen, said the promo was a way to contribute to the economic wellbeing of e customers.  His words: “We have made it so transparent that you don’t have to go through any raffle or draw associated with many other promotions in the country and you will win instantly because what is revealed in the scratch card is what you win.”
 
In her remarks, Marketing Director, Dangote Cement, Mrs. Funmi Sanni, said the company has the interest of its customers at the heart of their business, as they are the back bone of the company.
She said: “Consumers are important and a fundamental factor of production without which production process is incomplete and our ability to remain in business becomes impossible. Without them there is no business.
 
“To grow our business, we must constantly create value in terms of quality product and service, competitive pricing and depositing in consumers’ emotional bank accounts in order to become their preferred choice of brand at the point of purchase.” Speaking further, she said as a business, the management of Dangote Cement recognises the importance of every member of its value chain, distributors; wholesalers; and retailers, and have invested in growing their businesses through various empowerment schemes. She noted that every promo bag of cement contains a scratch card carrying winning items, adding that the promo cuts across all Dangote Cement’s brands, which include 3X, Falcon and BlocMaster in target sales of about 70.1 million bags of cement. Also, the Deputy Director and Coordinator of the Lagos Liaison Office, Nigeria Lottery Regulation Commission, Mrs. Nkiru Onuzulu, in her remarks, said the promo has been approved and registered with the Commission, and assured that the processes will be transparent, free and fair. “I can assure you that what you win is what you will get because we are monitoring and regulating the promo, and given the calibre of the company running this promo, which is Dangote Cement, there won’t be any undercut.” Also attesting to the inherent transparency in the promo, President of Blockmakers Association of Nigeria, Rasidi Adebowale, said Dangote has done a lot of promos that benefitted block makers in the past, where there was no issue. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .