 Cloud computing  Forcepoint’s global technology and strategic alliances span areas including public cloud, data classification, identity, and access management. It ensures that customers have the ability to simplify collaboration between vendors and create an integrated security stack. Forcepoint ensures that all tools including identity-as-a-service tools, collaboration, HR, IT service management, workflows, incident response, and other mission-critical business applications can deliver an understanding of the behavior of digital identities, and help extend the risk-adaptive protection to existing security infrastructure. The widespread adoption of cloud solutions has been driven by the myriad of associated benefits offered, such as flexibility, scalability and remote access. At the same time, concerns have been raised regarding the security of these solutions when it comes to keeping sensitive data safe from malicious actors. In the words of Chuks Ulu Udensi, CEO Infodata, Forcepoint partner in Nigeria: “Forcepoint gives a one-stop-shop for secure versatile and resilient enterprises as customers start and build on their risk-adaptive digital transformation Journey and a worthy security partner to drive the human-centric risk-adaptive approach to cybersecurity”. Fortunately, this can be avoided by demonstrating that both the organisation and the provider are committed to optimum cybersecurity, by investing the inadequate prevention of cyber threats, good data security, and data protection. Forcepoint Cloud Security Solution addresses these concerns At the recent Bankers Summit in Lagos Nigeria, Gregg Brans, Forcepoint Regional Manager for Africa –noted that “Forcepoint’s security solutions help customers transition from on-premise to cloud mitigating any cloud adoption fears. We integrate perfectly with public cloud service providers like AWS, Azure, G-Suite providing a secure risk-adaptive intelligent approach to security challenges.” Our journey into a complex world of digital transformation is already happening. Our ecosystems are already beginning to look the one on the top right. Complexity and risk are already high, as we operate in a multi-dimensional world based, on user and data connections. ­Organizations need to place users and data at the center of their design thinking. If you take a look at how security is applied in an infrastructure-centric paradigm, policies are applied from the infrastructure to groups, or departments or to the whole company. The result is friction for genuine users and an opportunity for malicious users that may find loopholes in the policy or the rights that are applied. Due to the generic nature of these policies, the noise of events and log files makes finding the bad amongst the good extremely difficult. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .