Your smartphone can do a whole lot more than you imagine. It can do more than just share photo updates on Instagram or keep up with the gossip on Twitter. With the right apps, your smartphone can be a life-changer. Here are 5 essential apps that every woman should have: Clue Peroid Tracker. Photo: Helloclue Clue is an easy to use period and fertility tracker that helps you to take control of your body. Dubbed as ‘the app to track your period and so much more’, Clue calculates and predicts a user’s period, fertile window, and premenstrual syndrome. It also informs users the most or least likely time for becoming pregnant and allows them to track more than 30 health categories, including sex, sleep, pain, exercise, hair, skin, digestion, emotions and energy.
The app can also explain how pill dosages impact fertility and include an alarm system to allow for reminders for taking pills.
Clue is available on Andriod and iOS. Headspace App Photo: Medium Headspace is your personal guide to health and happiness. A few minutes a day with Headspace would greatly improve your physical and mental life. It is a free medication, mindfulness and sleep app.
Headspace is available on Andriod and iOS Turn your room into a studio with Yoga Studio. Yoga is an ancient practice that brings together the body and mind. It incorporates breathing exercises, meditation and poses designed to encourage relaxation and reduce stress. Practising yoga is said to come with many benefits for both mental and physical health. Yoga gives you strength, flexibility, and mind-body awareness.
The Yoga Studio app features 80+ ready-made yoga and meditation classes in HD. You can track your fitness goals with daily, weekly scheduling. The library gives you access to over 280 poses with detailed advice and instructions.
Yoga Studio is available on Andriod and iOS YouCam has helped millions of women getting the best makeup suited for them. It can also be used to share photos on social media. The app features a variety of makeup effects to transform your image within minutes. You can even get detailed skincare analysis; tips on how to improve your skin or remove wrinkles, acne, spots, dark circles and more.
YouCam is available on Andriod and iOS. A ride-hailing app connects passengers with a local driver/rider. You should have ride-hailing apps like Uber, Bolt or Gokada on your smartphone. These apps also come in handy whenever you find yourself in situations in which you have to move really fast.