 Mustapha Audu  The family’s decision informed by the conflicting governorship ambition among three sons of late Prince Abubakar Audu, namely, Yahaya Audu, Muhammed Audu and Mona Mustapha Audu, who are jostling to contest the forthcoming governorship election. While Mona kicked off his political campaign by launching his political party, Young Peoples Party (YPP), he later joined the All Progressives Congress (APC) and continued his quest to be governor on the platform. On his part, Yahaya Audu, who first ran for the Kogi East senatorial seat, suddenly decided to keep his political dreams alive by joining the governorship race. Faced with the odd situation and in a bid to ensure that the governorship seat does not elude the Igala clan again, the family, comprising His Royal Highness, Alhaji Tijani Audu; Alhaji Ibrahim Audu; Hajia Hawawo (Aya); Hajia Ramatu Audu; Hajia Nana Audu; Hajia Teina, alongside other members resolved to reached out to Yahaya Audu to drop his ambition in favour of Muhammed Audu, who is the preferred candidate. Delivering the outcome on behalf of the family, its head, Tijani, in a statement yesterday said: “This is a new dawn in Audu’s family, as the support is premised on the family’s desire to present a more politically mature member to carry on the sterling personality, legacy and grand social standing the Audu’s family is known for. “Muhammed Audu, a grassroots politician has been an active member of the APC right from when Abubakar was alive, and has contributed immensely to the development of the party.” He stressed that the choice of Muhammed was also informed by the fact Muhammed “is also the rallying point of contact known to the political friends and allies of late Prince Abubakar Audu. It is therefore uncharitable to allow Muhammed to lose all the goodwill and supports that are the necessary condiments in any successful political outing.” The family leader added: “By this resolution, Mona Mustapha Audu and Yahaya Audu have lost the total support and goodwill of the family. They are therefore enjoined by the family to support Muhammed for the sake of love, unity, progress and synergy.” The family called on everyone to discountenance any rumour emanating from persons, clubs, parties and social groups, stating that there is division in Audu’s family. “There is no division of any kind; the family has made its stand clear on the candidate it is presenting to the world. Abubakar sold the family well to the world, therefore we cannot afford to have anything less than what Abubakar planted,” the family stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .