Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) has faulted calls for the suspension of the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Enoch Adeboye. The president of PFN, Dr. Felix Omobude, while addressing newsmen in Benin City, Edo State, yesterday, said those calling for Adeboye’s suspension for not taking a stand on the issue of Rural Grazing Area (RUGA) and Leah Sharibu’s abduction were ill-advised. “I think the suggestion for Pastor Enoch Adeboye to be suspended by the PFN is ill-advised. While PFN respects the rights of the people to protest, we think that protests should be done justly and those who embark on protests should conduct their investigation properly before embarking on them,” Omobude said. Nigerian musicians, Eedris Abdulkareem and BabaFryo, had led a protest to the RCCG Redemption Camp along Lagos-Ibadan Expressway to urge Adeboye to speak out the way he did in 2010 during the administration of Goodluck Jonathan over insecurity. In 2010, the RCCG G.O. had reportedly collected signatures of its members that would partake in a planned one million-man rally against the spate of insecurity in Nigeria. Initiating the move, he insisted that it was high time religious organisations raised awareness over insecurity in the country. Omobude said while the PFN also acknowledged the rights of people to protest, it should be directed at the appropriate quarters and not at individuals. “While acknowledging the right to protest, PFN appreciates the concern by the group. But it must note that its action will better achieve its aim, if directed at the appropriate quarters and not persons and organisations that have already invested in the process of bringing resolution to the issues raised,” the PFN president said. According to him, those who are accusing Adeboye of complicity are not abreast of the realities on the ground, how often he had stood up against injustice and how much he had contributed to the rehabilitation of the victims of insurgency in the country. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .