Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) office The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has okayed the Lagos Aviation Academy (LAA) as an Approved Training Organisation (ATO). This feat enables the academy to run additional courses such as the cabin crew ab-initio programme and the basic flight dispatcher course. The Academy’s Director, Bankole Bernard, attributes this success to LAA’s dedication to its core values of knowledge, integrity, excellence, ownership, and collaboration. Bankole said that the academy is focused on delivering quality service and achieving excellent results. “We do our best to ensure that everyone, who comes in here, gets the very best. Our vision is to train seasoned professionals who would compete out there. “We will achieve this in our relentless pursuit for excellence. We will also rise to the level of competing with other international aviation institutions in the nearest future. We are proud of the results we are getting at this stage of our growth and we will not relent on our efforts in attaining even greater feats,” he said.LAA’s General Manager, Chinasa Mbene, said LAA has experienced an accelerated growth over the years, because “we have fixed our eyes on the ball by committing to our core values. “In the first half of this year we have graduated over 70 students which is a good one for us and we are proud to announce it to the world.“Taking a look at it from an outsiders view, the figures may look small but for a school that has started in less than three years we have made substantive progress. On the strength of this, we wish to reassure our students, intending students and stakeholders in the industry that LAA remains committed to providing the best and we will push harder to ensure that we rise above expectations,” she said. In another feat, within the first half of the year 2019, the academy produced the IATA Best Performer in Nigeria in the March 2019 ‘Managing the Travel Business Course’.Adeola Alade, who emerged the overall best student in the IATA Managing the Travel Business Course commended the academy, saying, coming to LAA was one of the best choices she ever made. “Not only did I get a distinction in the international exam, I also emerged with the best result for the March 2019 exam session. The school offered me an automatic employment afterwards but I chose to pursue my own travel business. “I’m yet to see an Aviation school with professional facilitators as that of Lagos Aviation Academy. I’m glad that LAA is part of my success story and I’ll always recommend LAA to anyone, who really wants to pursue a career in travel and tourism,” Alade said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .