His Royal Majesty, Omo N’Oba N’Edo, Uku Akpolokpolo, Oba Ewuare II, the Oba of Benin (left) with Director-General, National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC), Otunba Segun Runsewe, during a courtesy visit to the Oba by the NCAC DG at the palace of the Oba in Benin City. • Oba Ewuare Pledges Support For Cultural Festival
Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, has said that the annual National Festival for Arts and Culture (NAFEST) has lived up to the noble objectives for which it was created, including deepening unity among Nigerians. Obaseki said this on Thursday during a reception organised for the Director-General of the National Council for Arts and Culture, Otunba Segun Runsewe and the directors of culture of over 30 states of the
country. The governor who was represented by his deputy, Rt. Hon. Comrade Philip Shaibu, noted that: “NAFEST has continued to foster greater unity among Nigerians through its numerous artistic and cultural offerings.” He explained that with unity, Nigeria as a country can attain any heights, and assured that Edo State was upbeat about hosting a colourful NAFEST come October this year. Earlier at the Oba Palace, the Benin monarch, His Royal Majesty Omo N’Oba N’Edo, Uku Akpolokpolo, Oba Ewuare II, pledged the support of the palace for the festival and extolled the NCAC DG. The revered monarch said Nigeria needs great minds like Runsewe who are passionate about the promotion of the country’s rich and diverse cultures expressing his delight at the choice of Benin for the next edition of the National Festival for Arts and Culture slated for October. Oba Ewuare was speaking when the DG along with his management team and 30 state directors of culture including major culture stakeholders visited him in his palace. His royal majesty was also glad that NAFEST will be hosted in Benin from October 19 to 26 with activities evenly distributed in major symbolic venues across the ancient city all in a bid to showcase culture and boost the state economy. The Benin monarch concluded by pledging his unflinching support towards NAFEST 2019 as preparations hit top gear. Delivering his address during the visit, Runsewe commended the Oba whose exploits and impressive antecedents as Nigeria’s ambassador ensured the restoration of peace to Angola among other noble achievements during his ambassadorial spell. The NCAC boss intimated that over three million people from around the world would flood Benin, including exhibitors, art collectors, culture enthusiasts and other stakeholders, just as the city is designated to host the first ever royal golf tournament come October with plans underway to establish the first royal museum and many more expected goodies courtesy NAFEST 2019. In conclusion of activities lined up for the weeklong technical committee meeting which ended Thursday, the NCAC DG and about 30 state directors of culture including other important stakeholders were hosted to a grand reception by the executive governor of Edo state represented by his deputy, comrade Philip Shuaibu at government house, Benin. The revered monarch said Nigeria needs great minds like Runsewe who are passionate about the promotion of the country’s rich and diverse cultures and expressed his delight at the choice of Benin as host of the
next edition of the National Festival for Arts and Culture slated for October. In his address, Runsewe hailed the Oba whose impressive antecedents as Nigeria’s ambassador, he said, ensured the restoration of peace to Angola amongst other noble achievements. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .