Several days after Busola Dakolo, the wife of Nigerian singer, Timi Dakolo came forward with rape allegations against the global senior pastor of Commonwealth of Zion (COZA), Biodun Fatoyinbo, reactions are still coming in. The latest celebrity to react to Dakolo’s rape allegation is  Abia state born musician, Waconzy who condemned the action of Timi Dakolo. According to Waconzy, the “Wish Me Well” singer has successfully disgraced himself, wife, children and family name, as he should have reported the matter to God rather than coming out for sympathy. Waconzy in his post stated that Busola will not heal via public apology. He wrote, ‘Timi Dakolo successfully disgraced himself, his wife, children and family name. Who told him that public apology/judgement will help his wife heal from pain?” Giving his reason for sharing this view, he said “After a decade, Instead of going to God in prayers and lawfully reporting to the police, you are going to the public for sympathy while tarnishing the name of the Church. When I say church, I mean the church of God (all denominations) …. It is amazing what people do for social media clout.  So what is your motive? to make people aware of rape or champion people to speak out or to destroy the name of the church ?…. Worst case scenario, a pastor did it.. is a pastor a god? He is just flesh like every other person out there … U just making it sound like the church is full of rapists. Are you ok ?? Just because u say he is a rapist don’t mean you are right or wrong..everybody can say anything to destroy the church and people will buy. The church I mean is bigger than all the churches in Nigeria, am talking about the body of Christ. The worldwide assembly of true Christians (Followers of Christ). Tell him I said he should love his wife more and stop letting Linda ikeji benefit from this stupidity.” Since Busola came forward with her allegation, mixed reactions have trailed her story although it is noteworthy that Fatoyinbo has since taken a leave of absence from the pulpit while maintaining his innocence. Celebrities like OAP Dotun, author Chika Unigwe and photographer/siner, TY Bello have alsomcome forward with their own rape and sexual molestation stories.