 Black Stallions  Speaking yesterday after the team’s training session ahead of the tie, Captain Onoro Onyiza Jato said that his team will do everything within their power to beat Cote d’Ivoire. Jato admitted that the encounter would be tough because Cote d’Ivoire have been boosted by their victory over the host, Ghana in their opening match. He, however, assured that the Stallions would go all out to get a victory today. “The players are in high spirits. As you can see, we had our first walkout morning and afternoon. This has put the team in high spirits ahead of the game. “The Stallions are not under pressure…. We are ready to give Cote d’Ivoire a good chase because some of their players must have picked up a few knocks from the Ghana game,” he said. Assistant captain of the Black Stallions, Dina Otoro Godwin, who plays for Settima Rugby Club of Italy, said the team was focused and determined to win the cracker. “Winning the game against Cote d’Ivoire will boost Nigeria’s ranking in rugby. So we are not going to take any chances on the pitch. The coach has given the players all that is needed for the game. “Our duty is to go all out to get the victory. The performance of the players in the training sessions have shown that we are ready to roar against Cote d’Ivoire,” he declared. Also speaking on the game, Coach Bronson Weir expressed his delight on the impact of the new players in the squad, adding, “Cote d’Ivoire will come hard on the Nigerian team on Wednesday, but we will deploy a tactical formation that would destabilise them.” Meanwhile, Cote d’Ivoire coach, Sounahoro Bakary is optimistic about another victory when they meet Nigeria today. He said, “Cote d’Ivoire is not scared of Nigeria. The game is open for the best team to win. “The game is not a do or die affair…if any of the team wins, so be it. I thank the African rugby body for organising this championship because it will go a long way to improve the development of rugby in the region. The experience we will get here will help us to continue improving in the game,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .