 [FILES] Sanwo-Olu  Its publicity secretary, Joe Igbokwe, stated yesterday that “the governor has his eyes on the development of sports” in the country, especially football. Critics had argued that the money could have been used to fix some roads dotting the state’s landcape, renovate schools and equip security officials in the state. Some even said he was giving money to rich footballers who were paid in United States dollars. “Lagos APC will not join issues with those who complained about the donation because Sanwo-Olu holds Lagos in trust for more than 20 million citizens. The governor is also entitled to do what he did to encourage the players who defeated the defending champions, the Indomitable Lions of Cameroon. The action is not about whether the players are rich or not, but a normal thing.” The party added that Sanwo-Olu, as one of the delegates assigned by President Muhammadu Buhari to boost the morale of the players, had to play the politics of football. Meanwhile, Lagos is set to reduce child morbidity and mortality, as it marks the 2019 Maternal, Newborn and Child Health (MNCH) Week, to provide health interventions on maternal and child healthcare in the state. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Health, Dr. Titilayo Goncalves, disclosed yesterday that the state government remained committed to interventions surrounding maternal, newborn and child health in the state, which were the most important issues determining global and national wellbeing. Goncalves stated further that the government had put in place various measures to ensure effective healthcare system to tackle the twin issue of maternal and child mortality in the state. She disclosed that the government had embarked on integration of low cost, high impact services and packages across the reproductive, maternal, newborn and child health, which could create effective and sustainable healthcare delivery for women and children. Goncalves implored Lagosians, especially caregivers, to take advantage of this year’s MNCH Week scheduled to hold from July 15 to 19 by taking their under-five children to Primary Healthcare Centres (PHCs) nearest to them to access the various health services, which include routine immunisation, Vitamin A administration, growth monitoring and promotion, screening for malnutrition and appropriate counselling/referral, deworming among others. She admonished Traditional Birth Attendants (TBAs) to get registered, avail themselves with danger signs in pregnancy and newborn and continue to refer patients early enough to save lives. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .