APC National Publicity Secretary Lanre Issa-Onilu • CDHR seeks removal, the resignation of service chiefs over insecurity
The All Progressives Congress (APC) has expressed concern over it described as ‘reckless and provocative statements’ of some leaders and interests in the country. Apparently referring to former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s open letter to President Muhammadu Buhari, it’s National Publicity Secretary, Lanre Issa Onilu in a statement yesterday urged Nigerians not to be persuaded by his (Obasnajo’s) position on the country’s security situation. It noted that inciting comments were counterproductive and dangerous, especially in a multi-ethnic country like Nigeria. The APC urged President Buhari’s administration, the National Assembly, religious, traditional leaders and all well-meaning Nigerians not to be distracted by divisive elements in the country. “Our leaders have an important duty to be temperate in their language and actions. We must be wary of partisan individuals, many of who formerly occupied elective positions, but failed to tackle most of the criminalities we face today. “We must be wary of these leaders who now play to the gallery to incite, spread hate and intolerance in the country. Their interventions are not patriotic but in pursuance of their selfish political interests. “We may not agree on some issues in our national life, but we must continue to explore all peaceful and legitimate avenues to tackle our challenges and find common ground to our disputations,” the statement reads. APC also faulted those who denigrate and reject other ethnic groups in any part of the country. Insisting that Nigerians should be free and safe to live and work anywhere in the country, it charged security agencies to intensify ongoing efforts to rid the country of terrorism, kidnapping, banditry, armed robbery and other crimes. Meanwhile, angered by rampant killings in the country, Committee for Defence of Human Rights (CDHR) yesterday sought the removal or resignation of service chiefs for their failure to arrest banditry. In a statement issued by its National Publicity Secretary, Comrade Henry Peter Ekine, the group berated the Nigerian leadership, the President and security agencies over insecurity in Nigeria. In the statement titled: CDHR Furious Over State Of The Nation: Insecurity Or War? it lamented that extrajudicial killings of citizens by criminal gangs and state agents have raised its concern on the threat to the security of lives of property. Comparing the killings to a war situation, it said all kinds of guns, arms, ammunition, and weapons were being used indiscriminately against unprotected Nigerians by non-state actors, bandits, insurgents, and even state actors. “The most recent gruesome murder of Mrs. Funke Olakunrin, daughter of Pa Reuben Fasoranti in Ondo State, is one killing too many,” it added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .