 C&I-Leasing  FPSO vessel is a multi-purpose facility used by offshore oil and gas industry for the production and processing of hydrocarbon and storage of oil. Speaking at the official unveiling of the JV in Nigeria, the Managing Director, C&I Leasing, Andrew Otike-Odibi, said: “C & I Leasing has strength in marine services and managing marine assets, while OCS is a specialist in managing and operating FPSOs. OCS is an affiliate of PW Offshore, one of the topmost FPSOs providers in the world. What this does is that it brings the expertise of PW Offshore in to the country, and C&I Leasing as a partner with strength in the Nigerian oil and gas industry that can provide that specialised services to operators in the industry.” He said the JV is expected to offer excellent, differentiated service to businesses in the Nigerian Oil and Gas sector by leveraging the cumulative decades of experience and expertise by both organisations providing offshore support in Africa and Asia along the lines of business process outsourcing, personnel management, offshore vessel operation and maintenance. He added that OCSISNL is also committed to impacting the sector by identifying and nurturing talent in the sector, and creating prospects for more jobs and skills development opportunities for interested young Nigerians. Senior Vice President, Operation and Maintenance, Sangram Dhote, revealed that OCSISNL intends to introduce a collaborative growth agenda to the Nigerian offshore business environment, adding that the JV has remarkable potential to provide a win-win for all stakeholders. He assured that OCSISNL will provide a perfect mix of technical expertise, operational efficiency, local understanding and quality service delivery. Also speaking a director of OCSISNL, Dinesh Rehani, said OCS has a very strong global brand name and expertise in the operation and maintenance of oil production assets.“We also provide crew for our technical services; we have a corrosion management business; we also do steal replacement on offshore running assets, because of the backing and equity holding of BW Offshore, we have very strong background in technology,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .