A suspected stowaway Friday caused panic at the Murtala Muhammed Internationa Airport Lagos. According to an eye witness, Otto Orondaam said on Instagram that the man ran from a bush to the Azman Airline which was about to take off with a bag which he dropped inside the engine. He said the man was spotted by passengers and pilot who immediately slowed down. “How it happened!! So our flight was taxing on the runway and about taking off when this man shows up running towards the moving aircraft from the bush. The pilot and a few passengers spotted him running towards the aircraft and the pilot immediately slowed down and quickly put off the engine,” Orondaam said. In the video posted by Orondaam, the man was seen fiddling with the wings and engine of the aircraft with a glove on his hand. Ottordom, however, stated they waited about 37 minutes till the Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria authorities and security personnel came and apprehended the man. Over 96 individuals around the world have tried to travel in plane wheel since 1947. The incidents happened on 85 flights. More than three-quarters have proved fatal as chances for survival is slim. The undercarriage compartment of a plane is equipped with neither heating, oxygen nor pressure, all of which are crucial for survival as the altitude rises. At 18,000ft (5,490m), experts say, hypoxia will set in, causing weakness, tremors, light-headedness, and visual impairment. By 22,000ft (6,710m) the stowaway will struggle to maintain consciousness as their blood oxygen level drops. Above 33,000ft (10,065m) the lungs require artificial pressure to function normally. Recently a dead body of a stowaway fell from a Kenya Airways plane that was en route off from Nairobi to London’s Heathrow. The dead man landed in a garden in Clapham, South London, 27 kilometres from the airport, scaring the owner of the house, who immediately called the police. The Police later found a bag containing food and clothing in the rear left landing gear in the plane. The cases of stowaways are common among individuals from developing countries attempting to make their way to Europe or North America for greener pastures. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .