 [FILES] Taraba state  The development was said to have compelled youths from the other ethnic group to launch reprisals on the group suspected to have hacked down the farmer. An eyewitness confirmed that trouble started yesterday when a Jukun man was murdered on his farm along Takum-Wukari road, saying he narrowly escaped being lynched, as eight persons have so far been killed in the reprisals. Confirming the incident, Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP David Misal, said only two persons were killed and that the situation has been brought under control. Wondering why the people have continued to resist the government’s effort at restoring peace, the said land issues have been in court and two months ago a relation of the deceased, who was earlier killed on the land yesterday had earlier been killed on the same farm. He, however, said: “We have since brought the situation under control.” Other residents of the area who corroborated the eyewitness, said they counted at least eight dead bodies around the General Hospital Junction and Zenith Bank in the council area. Besides, three persons have been reportedly killed in renewed hostilities between Okpoga and Edumoga communities in Okpokwu Council of Benue State. The Guardian learned that the lingering crisis between Ollo Community in Edumoga district and parts of Okpoga had claimed many lives. Local sources in the area lamented that nobody could ascertain the actual causes of the age-long crisis, including the recent one that resulted in the killing of three persons and looting of property in the area. But another source told The Guardian that the present crisis ensued when some people from Okpoga allegedly attacked Ollo Community but were overpowered by the Ollo people, which led to the death of the three members of Okpoga Community. However, another indigene of the area and resident of Okpoga, Igoche Adoba, said the Ollo people invaded Okpoga Community on Monday night, killing three persons, insisting that they were attacked unprovoked. When contacted, the Benue State Command Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Sewuese Anene, said she had not been briefed on the development, adding that the Commissioner of Police (CP) held a meeting with leaders of the area last week and advised them to keep the peace.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .