Scene of the incident Officials of Oshodi-Isolo Local Government Area yesterday evacuated the body of a newborn baby dumped inside the canal along Wuraola Street, Ladipo Oshodi area of Lagos State. The body was later deposited at the morgue. The body, according to the Media/Publicity Officer of the council, was found on Wednesday wrapped with baby shawl and pampers, by the residents of the street, who immediately alerted the local council. A resident, Mrs. Adigun Tawakalitu, who was among those who first saw the body and raised the alarm, said the lifeless body of the infant was disposed in a manner that every passerby would easily notice it. She said: “This is shameful and must not be encouraged as our youths now engage in promiscuity at will. How can someone in her right senses do this type of thing in this age when we have many orphanages around? If their parents had done same to them would they have been alive? Moreover, whoever is engaged in sex without protection should be ready for the consequences.” Another eyewitness said the baby might have been dropped by an irresponsible girl, lady or woman who thinks she doesn’t need the baby or not ready to take up the responsibility of her upbringing. Head of Environmental Services, Oshodi-Isolo Local Government, Mr. Akeem Adeoye, warned the public to desist from the act of murder and gross irresponsibility because the law would take its course on whoever is caught in the act. He appealed to parents and guardians to increase their parental guide on their children especially young ladies whom he advised to be extra careful and be ready to take responsibility when they engage in sexual activities. In the same vein, Secretary to the Local Government (SLG), Isolo Local Council Development Area (LCDA), Emmanuel Olojede, said a woman dragged by flood to the community by heavy rain has been transferred to the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), Mushin for further treatment. The woman, whose name is yet to be ascertained, had been initially evacuated by the local council health workers after a distress call was placed through haven been saved by residents who noticed her in a canal at Amosu Street. Olojede said: “The woman has been rescued, she is alive and receiving treatment in LUTH. When we got the call, I alerted the appropriate quarters who immediately switched to action to rescue the woman. “At first, she was taken to Ilasamaja Primary Health Centre but, upon medical analysis, it was discovered that there is need to transfer her to the general hospital. We contacted the Lagos State Ambulance Service (LASAMBUS) and they came to pick her along with her mother, because we had to locate her mother.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .