 Child birth.PHOTO CREDIT:http://www.childrensonquality.com  However, the power supply at the hospital is erratic.  A medical officer at Mother & Child Hospital, Dr. Oria Adebose explains, “In 24 hours, we may have 16 hours of light, at the most. We have power cuts from six o’clock in the morning up to 1.00p.m. It runs for about four hours, till 5.00p.m., switches off and comes back at 12.00 midnight. On some days, it does not even last up to 16 hours.” Nigeria also has the highest maternal mortality rate in the region, second in the world, only to India, so when facilities like Mother and Child Hospital loses power, their clinicians have to figure out how to accommodate unexpected, long gaps in service without jeopardizing patient care. In July 2017, the hospital decided to purchase solar lamps to reduce the burden of these frequent power cuts and to enable continuous delivery of services, despite periods of darkness. Solar lamps offer refuge to smaller and more remote medical clinics that serve patients after sunset, for pre-maternal care, routine check-ups, and even emergency deliveries. The risks of childbirth can be exacerbated by a lack of access to electricity.  Even if a hospital has the expertise and equipment to provide necessary care for a patient, it might not have the electricity to use that equipment or properly see a patient in the dark. Unexpected gaps in electricity access and the ensuing inability to provide care when critically needed can add complexity to the way medical treatment is administered and introduce risk that would be less common in facilities that are able to continuously see and care for patients without electricity challenges. Mother and Child Hospital chose to invest in off-grid solar-powered solutions to minimize this kind of complexities and enable continuity to their day-to-day operations.Also, Partnerships Leader for West Africa at Greenlight Planet, Ms. Chioma Agogo, said, “Without light after sunset, a lot of women going into labour at night would have done so in complete darkness, potentially in riskier conditions. “Now, as a result of the simple additions of the Sun King solar lighting systems installed at the hospital, there is a significant improvement to the conditions and welfare of the patients, especially during night-time emergencies.” Now, during power cuts, the solar lamps are immediately switched on, enabling most of the clinic’s basic care services to continue, uninterrupted. The hospital’s five outpatient wards often experience a surge of patients in the evenings for antenatal check-ups. Thanks to the additional light provided by the new solar lamps, these nighttime check-ups happen faster, and clinicians and patients alike can maneuver around the hospital with greater speed and safety. Adebose said the use of solar lamps has allowed nurses to accurately administer drugs at night and to thoroughly clean the hospital’s facilities in the morning hours, adding:  “Even when the generator shuts down, we are not caught unaware because the Sun King lamps are on standby.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .