 Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports, Adesola Olusade  The worried Olusade told the athletes that attended the workshop in different outfits that they were privileged to be selected among Nigeria’s teeming youth population, adding, “The message was passed that this Workshop was scheduled for 12 noon, and some of you were strolling in about 1.00 p.m.; and in the outfit of your choice rather than being in uniform,” Adesola Olusade told the athletes shortly before he declared open the one-day anti-doping workshop organised ahead of the forthcoming 12th Africa Games in Morocco. He added that “At the last All Africa Games in Congo in 2015, five of our athletes tested positive in spite of all that we did, and eight athletes also tested positive to banned drugs at the recent National Sports Festival. This trend is becoming worrisome”. Noting that doping in sports was a very serious problem, the Permanent Secretary stated that it was important that those in the ministry responsible for caring for the athletes helped them to stay away from doping and keep the sports clean. “I know drug testing would be conducted during the training camp for the 12th Africa Games because it is important we go to the Games in Morocco with clean athletes. “However, although I do not know when or who will be tested, I want to believe and pray that any athlete selected for testing would pass this test. The National Anti-Doping Committee (NADC) with the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development has recognized this need to provide you with important anti-doping education, more so as you prepare to participate at this year’s edition of what can be seen as Africa’s Olympic Games, the 12th Africa Games scheduled to hold in Rabat, Morocco in the month of August this year.” The coaches were also not spared as the Permanent Secretary urged them to strengthen the fragile trust by taking the anti-doping roles and responsibilities to the athletes seriously. He added: “They look up to you for guidance and confidence.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .