 Ondo House of Assembly  The snake incident happened on Wednesday during the Yoruba sitting, preventing the legislators from embarking on the session as everyone scampered for safety. According to a source within the House, the lawmakers wondered in amazement and visible trepidation as they rushed out of the chamber, leaving the snake to escape. While at the plenary session on Wednesday, the ceiling of the chamber caved in and landed very close to the seat of the Speaker, Bamidele Oleyelogun, who scampered off his exalted seat for safety. The entire complex, built by the first Executive Governor of the state, late Pa. Michael Ajasin, is a sore-sight and has been discredit for years without renovation. The dilapidated state of the Assembly Complex was part of the agitations of the Eighth Assembly members, who demanded prompt renovation of the building and financial autonomy. Rising from the session last year from a session when lawmakers were visibly fanning themselves, the Deputy Speaker, Ogundeji Iroju, decried the deplorable states of the Assembly complex, which was built by the government of Ajasin over four decades ago. Iroju, who is also the Deputy Speaker of the Ninth Assembly, among other things said, “We also decry the deplorable condition of the entire House of Assembly complex and we appeal to the executive governor, who is also the financial custodian of the state resources to assist us.” While narrating their experiences, the Chairman of the House Committee on Information, Hon Gbenga Omole, recounted that “Yesterday (Wednesday) when we are about to enter into plenary, a big snake just ran out of the chamber which disrupted our sitting and we had to hurriedly leave the chamber. “We are about to sit again today when a ceiling caved in directly where Mr. Speaker was sitting. The while house were agitated and when we look around we saw the damage the termite had done to most of the wood work in the chamber. At that point we had to call ourselves and adjourned the sitting.” Without mincing words, Omole stated that “that chamber is no longer good for legislative business and because of that we decided to adjourn indefinitely. The house will be going on an indefinite recess. “We need to intimate the state governor about this development and we have decided to meet him on this. Mr. Governor is aware of part of the infrastructural decay here because of the things here are outdated and not too good for legislative business. “As at now the House has not been given the autonomy we are agitating for, because if it has happened, we don’t need to consult the governor. You know how things are being run presently, every arms of government need to look up to the executive to get things done.” The House Committee Chairman hinged their hope on the prompt intervention by Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu to come to their aid, stressing that the situation led the leadership of the House to adjourn sitting sine die. “But pending the approval of the legislative autonomy we have to look towards the executive where Mr. governor is in charge and we will have to appeal to him to come to our aid because we have a lot on business to do and there  is a lot of bills to be treated. “When I said we are going on recess, we will continue to come to our offices but sitting down in that chamber is what is not going to happen. We have written to Mr. Governor for him to know what is happening here.” Contrary to reports that the snake escaped, he disclosed that “We eventually killed the snake but there are a lot of reptiles hibernating in the roof of the chamber, and whenever it rains, the whole chamber is flooded.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .