 ITF Complex, Abuja  ITF was established to regulate training standards, offer direct training intervention in industrial and commercial skills training and development using a corps of highly competent professional staff, modern techniques and technology. At a presentation of the Fund’s 2019 skills intervention programme in Abuja, the Director-General, Joseph Ari, insisted that skills acquisition remain the most viable and sustainable solution to the rising unemployment and poverty in Nigeria. Ari said it is worrisome that efforts to reduce unemployment in the country are yet to yield better results.
He said: “The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) Report in the last Quarter of 2018, said it all. According to the Report, the number of Nigerians without jobs between the 4th Quarter of 2017 to the 3rd Quarter of 2018, increased from 17.6 million to 20.9 million. This is despite the fact that the number of people in employment increased from 68.4 million in the 3rd Quarter of 2015 to 68.72 million in the 3rd Quarter of 2016, and to 69.09 million in the 3rd Quarter of 2017 and 69.53 million in the 3rd Quarter of 2018.” He explained that there is no doubt that unemployment has wrought a terrible damage on all facets of Nigeria’s national life, saying, “No reasonable analysis will divorce unemployment from the needless incidences of violence that have claimed thousands of lives across the nation. It will equally be difficult to separate rising criminality and harmful social vices that are being perpetrated by Nigerians because of unemployment and the attendant poverty. Consequently, our population that ordinarily should be a resource has become an albatross because we cannot provide a greater proportion of our population with a source of livelihood.” He noted that clearly efforts at tackling unemployment are still not yielding the desired results. “It is against this backdrop that today we are unveiling our 2019 Skills Intervention Programmes, as part of our determined and continuing effort to contain the unemployment malaise. To this end, management came up with a list of 11 implementable programmes for Year 2019.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .