Nigerian Senate Wednesday called for an investigation into the assault on a lady by Senator Elisha Abbo at a sex toy shop in Abuja. Senator Uba Sani, who represents Kaduna Central Senatorial District, asked Senate president Ahmed Lawan to set up a committee to investigate the matter. Premium Times published a video of Abbo, who represents Adamawa North District, assaulting a lady attendant at the sex toy shop. In the video, Abbo slapped the lady more than five times and ordered his security aide to walk the assaulted lady out of the shop. The Senator in an interview with Channels Television claimed his sister was beaten at the shop and he was assaulted on arrival at the scene in May, while he was a senator-elect after the elections. Lawan, however, said while the matter remains an allegation, the matter will be investigated and all sides should be given a fair hearing. The Senate president thereafter set up a bi-partisan committee to investigate the allegation of assault by Senator Elisha Cliff Abbo. Lawan in a tweet said, “the constitution of the committee is in line with my resolve to lead a National Assembly that is not only responsible but responsive to the people we represent.” The committee was given two weeks to submit its report. Nigerians, members of opposition parties and human rights activists have also called for the arrest and arraignment of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Senator in court. Festus Keyamo (SAN), asked Nigeria Police to arrest the senator immediately given the available video evidence that he committed the offence. “The case of Senator Elisha Abbo is very straightforward,” Keyamo said. “The police must immediately take three steps: first, arrest him (no formal complaint is needed with the evidence on tape). Secondly, obtain his statement (if he’s willing to make one) and that of the victim and thirdly arraign him in court,” Keyamo said. The chairman, Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, said it was unfortunate that Abbo, who replaced Senator Binta Garba at the Senate would be involved in such act. “To think that this PDP guy was said to have ‘defeated’ one of our most respected female parliamentarians, Senator Binta Garba. The Senate must not protect him. He should be charged. The footage is enough evidence. He deserves to be in prison,” Dabiri-Erewa tweeted. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .