Hundreds convened on Friday, the 28th of June for CultivARTe 2019, a conference by EverythingNaArt to help develop engines for the growth of human capital in Africa. With a keynote address by Tokini Peterside and panels of various industry leaders which include Fareed Arogundade, Jameelah Sharrieff-Ayedun, Lisa Folawiyo, Ade Shokunbi, Bada Akintunde-Johnson, Nwando Ajene and Jolomi Otumara the power-packed conference challenged the speakers to make purposeful commitments to the community of stakeholders in the audience. This move was a brand differentiator. CultivARTe which held at The Podium, Lekki, stood out from other conferences by teaching attendees actual industry secrets and gems needed to develop themselves. There were also novel interactive sessions conducted by industry experts like Vector, Tobi Bakre, Adaora Mbelu, Afua Osei, Karika Yonreme , Glory Edozien (PhD), Feranmi Ajetomobi, Salem Ibrahim and Tutu Adetunmbi where unique listening technology was used for the first time in a Nigerian conference which helped attendees appreciate and master the useful information dished out. The conveners Amin Ameen and Mofe Ade, created #Cultivarte19 to address Access and Direction, two key needs identified in the tech, culture, art, business, leadership and community spaces in Africa. “We are happy that we were able to have this conference at this crucial period in the development of Africa’s economy,” says Amin Ameen, Founder of EverythingNaArt and Co-Convener of CultivARTe. “We have the largest amount of creatives, entrepreneurs and thought leaders that are needed to develop Africa to compete on a global stage. With CultivARTe, we have bridged the gap between those that need access and those that can provide it. We look forward to continuing this on a larger scale with future editions of CultivARTe.” The conference becomes an additional feather on the brand EverythingNaArt’s cap, as they have successfully trained over 25,000 members of their community with value-based digital courses making it easy for their tribe members to make a living that is sustainable, impactful and rewarding. See photos from the event in the gallery below: Guardian LIFE was a media partner of the 2019 CultivARTe conference.