REUTERS/Paul Carsten Immediate past president of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, has denied fighting with the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) in the media. A statement signed by his Special Adviser (Media and Publicity), Yusuph Olaniyonu, claimed that Saraki was the one at the receiving end of the media onslaught from the EFCC. “Various documents and court processes from the agency have been given to a particular newspaper for publication. “In fact, while the EFCC distributed copies of its letter to the Chief Judge of the Federal High Court immediately it was submitted, we are still surprised how Saraki’s response written early May found its way into a newspaper last Sunday,” Olaniyonu stated. According to the statement, if the former Senate president is interested in leaking the letter, he would not have waited for seven weeks to do that. “Saraki believes he is on firm ground on the points of law and has nothing to be afraid of. He is innocent of the charges. “We need to reiterate that Dr. Saraki is not interested in obstructing any investigation by the EFCC or any security agency,” he stated, pointing out that the anti-graft body would be embarking on a wild goose chase by claiming that it was investigating the Office of the Senate President between 2015 and 2019. The statement added that Saraki’s office had nothing to do with contract awards and handling of the finances of the National Assembly. “These are functions of the bureaucracy of the National Assembly, otherwise known as the National Assembly Management.” “All the issues the EFCC is presently raising on its persistent probe of the tenure of Saraki as governor of Kwara State between 2003 and 2011 are the same issues that are contained in four of the charges filed before the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) and taken before the Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court. “The CCT case went beyond the subject matter of asset declaration. They raised issues about the assets, how and when they were acquired, sources of their funding and banking transactions of Dr. Saraki. “That is why we maintain that since the issues have been determined by the courts up to the Supreme Court, the EFCC is just on a persecution and smear campaign with its current investigations. “However, in their desperation to nail Dr. Saraki, some of the charges that contained insinuations that Kwara funds were paid into accounts owned by him and companies in which he has interests were filed. “Twice, the charges went before the highest court in the land and he was discharged and acquitted.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .