Female rap sensation, Nicki Minaj is all about setting the record straight with her past and one way she decided to do this was to come face to face with her former manager Big Fendi on the latest Queen Radio. The Grammy-nominated rap star during the July 26 edition of Queen Radio told her first manager, Big Fendi who came on as a guest that the mistake he made with her was to think that she was brainless. The “Chun Li” rapper spoke extensively to Big Fendi who discovered her back in the mid-aughts on My Space and changed her name from Nicki Maraj — her real name — to what it is today. The duo had a bad falling out when she left him to be managed Debra Antney and her Mizay Entertainment. Speaking about what went wrong in their working relationship, Minaj said: “The mistake you made was that you thought I was some brainless ho that you was going to tell what to do,” Nicki told Big Fendi, though she did admit The 36-year-old “Megatron” rapper then told him what finally made her decide to break ties with him. “The last straw was when you put me on a DVD and the caption said ‘Super P***y’.” she revealed. Fans have since been hailing Minaj for her mature way of reconciling with Big Fendi with many expressing their support that the duo is back on good terms. A throwback photo of Big Fendi and Nicki Minaj | Photo – Hollywood Street King It would be recalled that in 2014, Big Fendi spoke out about discovering Minaj and the aftermath of their split on Power 105.1’s The Breakfast Club. He said: “I didn’t get nothing,” he said of their parting. “Nah, Nicki tried to offer me a finder’s fee of $15,000. I laughed at it. Can’t be serious…Actually, I own the trademark to Nicki Minaj. I own NickiMinaj.com. I actually [own her trade]. So, in a minute you gon’ see a lot of things coming off those shelves.” He added: “Nicki started with me in ’06, ’07. I met her on MySpace…Her name was Nicki Maraj when I met her. I changed her name to Nicki Minaj. And I actually got into a big argument with her family because she felt like—Nicki didn’t like the name Minaj. She felt like I was degrading her.”