LEAF ADORNING A WOMAN’S PRIVATE PART PHOTO ALLURE.COM Nutritional values of fruits goes beyond securing health, some fruits are also effective for vaginal tightening. Yes, you see that right, they work effectively in making your vaginal tight, safe and healthy. Vaginal tightening is the process of tightening the pelvic muscles. It helps to achieve a degree of elasticity of the pelvic floor muscles, thus enhancing tightness. However, it is Important to note that having more or less sex has nothing to do with the elasticity of your vagina. A loose vagina can be caused by several reasons, these could be: childbirth, menopause and the inevitable aging process. The loss of estrogen can lead to vaginal relaxation or loosening. A healthy diet and exercise can strengthen the pelvic floor and repair it in the safest possible way. These are quite popular. These are exercises that consist of steps that contract and relax pelvic floor muscles. you will have to empty your bladder before you commence this exercise. Tighten your pelvic floor muscles and hold them in for eight to 10 counts, Release and repeat. You will notice a huge difference if you follow this regularly. This simple exercise only requires you to lie on your back on the floor and lift your legs up one after the other. Do not bend your legs, instead hold them straight. Lift and lower legs alternately. Cranberries prevent and relive symptoms of urinary tract infections by acidifying the urine and balancing the PH of the vaginal area. The strong acidic compounds which don’t get broken down during digestion making them able to fight bacteria that causes the infections. You can eat fresh cranberries by mixing them in natural yoghurt. As ladies, we need lots of water for our vaginal mucous membrane to function properly, so they need to stay well hydrated . Drinking sufficient amounts of water will ensure that your vagina stays lubricated as well as diminish foul smells from your vaginal. This fruit helps in regaining the vaginal wall and improving the vagina’s’ health. Avocado comprises of healthy fats that boost libido. It is also rich in potassium and Vitamin B-6 for strengthening the vaginal wall. The vitamin A present in this contributes to healthy vaginal and uterine walls and helps to produce the hormones needed to stay vibrant and energized. One apple a day increases your sex life. Apples help in improving sexual functions, lubrication and strengthens your ability to get orgasmic. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment