 Omawumi  The seven-track project which is Omawumi’s fourth body of work, features songs such as Without You, specially dedicated to her husband, and other tracks like For My Baby, Mr. Sinner Man, Away, True loving, Tabansi and Green Grass, all which addressed thematic issues like family, relationships, and domestic violence. Following the excitement and positive reviews of the enthralling lead single, Without You, the pretty, talented and hardworking Omawumi, has finally come through with the visuals for the song. Shot by Hermanez Media, an outfit jointly owned by Omawumi and fellow music diva, Aituaje Iruobe, popularly known as Waje, the newly released video features delightful choreography and excellent vocal demonstration. The song is a perfect tune for lovebirds. Commenting on the reviews, the vivacious singer and actress said, “I’m delighted to see my friends and colleagues come listen and celebrate with me. It is a great feeling to experience the positive response towards the songs on the LP, and the review of the lead single, ‘Without You’ has been really fantastic so far.” “‘In Her Feelings’ represents a legacy which was inspired by family, relationships, domestic violence and our society, and I hope it contributes to the lives of everyone who listens to it. I am deeply humbled to have my fans and close friends show up to support me,” she added. Music pundit and artiste manager, Sunday Are, who also is Omawumi’s manager, expressed his excitement about the new project saying, “We listened to the songs and immediately knew it’s a creative product that is truly industry-defining. Omawumi has a lot to share with her fans from the LP, and the entire management can’t wait to see our superstar set global standards for making impactful music.” Omawumi gained prominence as the 2007 Runner-up on West African Idols, a reality TV show and part of the Idols franchise. Following her exploits at the show, she has gone on to release successful singles and albums including Wonder Woman, The Lasso of Truth and Timeless, all which confirmed her rising profile in the Nigerian music industry. Her strong voice and out-going personality, earned her numerous performances on the stage with music heavyweights such as 2Face Idibia, Angelique Kidjo, Donell Jones, Chaka Demus and Pliers, Carl Thomas, Angie Stone, D’Banj, Banky W, M.I, P-Square (now defunct), 9ice, and Sasha, among others. Before now, Omawumi and fellow music diva, Tiwa Savage, were the leading and sought after female artistes in the country, a situation that created some kind of supremacy battle between them. Hence, they both became to music what Genevieve and Omotola were to movies – joint leaders. However, Omawumi’s brief absence from the music space due to marriage and maternity engagement saw the Kele Kele Love crooner take the shine and play the lead star among the female artistes in the music industry. But determined to recover the lost ground, Omawumi, has been working hard on herself (sound and melody) since the beginning of the year, the outcome of which is her new LP. As part of her self-reclamation, the lawyer turned showbiz persona had in the past dropped singles likes Play Na Play, with an amazing video, featuring Grammy winner, Angelique Kidjo. Apart from her music career, the singer also plies her trade in the movie industry, having featured in a handful of Nollywood films, which include a minor role in the 2009 edition of the V-Monolugues, a play that reflects the negative issues affecting women in Nigeria. She also starred in the musical play Olurombi, Inale (2010), a Hollywood/Nollywood Bongos-Ikwe production. In 2011, she starred in Funke Akindele’s Return of Jenifa, Yvonne Nelson’s House of Gold (2013), and Make A Move (2014). Recalled, the absence of Omawumi and Tiwa Savage paved way for the emergence of bustling singers like Yemi Alade, Simi, Niniola, and the rave of the moment, Teni The Entertainer, who are giving them a run for the show. The listening party, which was supported by Nigerian Breweries, Adonko Bitters, The View Rooftop, Twin Waters, BellaNaija, YNaija.com, Hip TV, Rave TV, Kraks TV, Pulse TV and Naijaloaded.com had in attendance celebrities including Toke Makinwa, Seyi Shay, Ebuka Obi-Uchendu, Bisola Aiyeola, Chris Ubosi and comedienne, Chioma Omeruah (Chigul) as host.