Lagos State deputy governor Obafemi Hamzat Thursday disclosed that the government is in negotiating a partnership with Uber on water transportation. Hamzat, who represented the governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, made the disclosure at the 4th Traffic Radio Lecture Series themed ‘Lagos beyond roads; The intermodal transport option’ in Ikeja. “On our waterways, we are working on making it work for our residents. These things cost a lot of money. We are talking to Uber to partner with us on water transportation,” Hamzat said. Hamzat also disclosed that the government was working with some organisations through a public-private partnership to reduce gridlock in the state through its waterways. He said that the government will implement recommendations from studies it underwent major points of traffic in the state after the raining season. “Already, the State Public Works Corporation has started palliative works across the State, this rehabilitation work would be intensified more when the rain subsides,” Hamzat said. Hamzat also disclosed that the government have acquired six pothole filling machines to be used when rehabilitation of the roads begins. On other channels of transportation in the state, the deputy governor said raising funds for rail projects in the Lagos State development master plan has been a challenge. He urged Lagosians to be patient with the government in prioritising its projects. Earlier, the general manager, Federal Inland Waterways Authority, Senator Adeleke Mamora advice Lagos State Government to take advantage of its waterways to decongest traffic. “It is high time the government takes advantage of the waterways to decongest traffic,” Mamora said. He said the waterways in Lagos were naturally gifted opportunities to the state to solve its traffic congestion challenges. Mamora, who represented Lagos East Senatorial District in the Nigerian Senate from 2007 till 2015, said over 50 communities in Lagos have waterways interconnecting them, thus, giving an option of transportation beyond roads. The Senator explained that hour-long stress of being stuck in traffic could be blamed for irrational behaviours by residents of the state. “We know that a lot of government globally created artificial waterways, but Lagos is naturally blessed with water,” Mamora said. He urged the government to begin resuscitating the existing jetty terminals and creation of new ones. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .