 Nigeria’s coach Gernot Rohr (C) celebrates after winning the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (CAN) Third place play-off football match between Tunisia and Nigeria at the Al Salam stadium in Cairo on July 17, 2019. (Photo by Khaled DESOUKI / AFP)  Laloko, who expressed disappointment over CoachGernot Rohr’s ability in the games played by the Eagles at the AFCON, said the bronze medal was due to the efforts of the Eagles, adding that the coach should be allowed to see off his contract and leave afterward. “I want to congratulate the Eagles, the boys have done well. I think they tried their best and I want to commend them for that. Chukwueze is a player we can’t play with for now because apart from Iwobi, he is the next mobile and intelligent player that we have in the team. He is a revelation,” he said. The former The Gambiacoach said he didn’t see anything Rohr contributed to the team throughout the tournament. “I didn’t any tactical input from the coach throughout the matches played by the team. I am a football coach and I didn’t see anything tactical in the team. I think the boys were just on their own during the competition. “It is a pity that each time we have these foreign coaches to handle our team, we don’t know how to use them. That is why the leadership itself has to learn what football administration is all about.” I don’t think the idea of paying a foreign coach and telling him to come around coach the Super Eagles and just go back home and rest has done us any good. I know he has a lot to give if he understands it. “For me, Rohr is not a good coach and he has to go. Let me tell you why he has to go. He has coached in four countries, Gabon, Burkina Faso, Mali, and Niger and the bronze medal he won in Egypt is the first medal he has in his life. When he was in those countries what did he win? Nothing! “The implications of sacking him are very clear. We have to pay him some money. I understand we are going to be coughing out some huge amount of money if we sack. So, why don’t we just allow him to see off his contract rather than giving him some money free of charge? I don’t think it is wise for us to sack him and give him that huge sum.” Meanwhile, former SuperEagles Captain and coach, Chairman Christian Chukwuhas once again thanked the theNFF president and executive members of the federation for their rapid response while he was ill. The Nigerian football legend, whose cost of treatment in England was borne by philanthropist, Femi Otedola, said words would not be enough to thank NFF president, PinnickAmaju for his prompt response in his time of need. ‘’I wake up every day praying for Amaju, Otedola and the governor of Enugu State, His excellency Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi. It is only God who will reward them for their assistance’’, Chukwu said. “They and all Nigeriansdemonstrated love to me. I thank all of them’’, Chukwusaid. Speaking on the bronze medal won by the SuperEagles after beating Tunisia 1-0 in the third-place match at the AFCON in Egypt, Chukwusaid that it was better than nothing  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .