Nigerian Senate Wednesday will begin the screening of the 43-man ministerial nominees by President Muhammadu Buhari. “The screening of the ministerial nominees will commence tomorrow (Wednesday). All other legislative activities will take backstage for this very important national assignment,” Lawan said on Tuesday. Lawan announced the list of ministerial nominees by President Buhari, who was sworn in for a second term over two months ago. To speed up the screening exercise, the Senate postponed its annual recess for a week. Buhari listed former ministers such as Chris Ngige, Hadi Sirika, Rotimi Amaechi, Adamu Adamu, Mohammed Adamu, Babatunde Fashola and Lai Mohammed among the ministerial nominees but did not include their proposed portfolios. Others in the list are Uche Ogah, Emeka Nwajuiba, Sadiya Farouk, Musa Bello, Godswill Akpabio, Sharon Ikeazor, Ogbonnaya Onu, Akpa Udo, and Adebayo (Ekiti). Also, Timipre Sylva, Adamu Adamu, Shewuye (Borno), Isa Pantami, Gbemi Saraki, Ramatu Tijani, Clement Abam were also declared as part of the nominees. Paullen Tallen, Abubakar Aliyu, Sale Mamman, Abubakar Malami, Muhammed Mamood, Rauf Aregbesola, Mustapha Buba Jedi Agba, Olamilekan Adegbite, and Mohammed Dangyadi. Chairman of the Senate Ad-hoc Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Senator Adeyeye Adedayo, assured Nigerians that the senators will do a thorough job in screening the ministerial nominees. “Plenary normally does not hold on Fridays, plenary will hold on Friday this week and Monday next week in other to hasten the process. We want to do a thorough job and we want Nigerians to know that we are doing a thorough job,” Adedayo said at a press conference in Abuja. He said the postponement of the Senate’s annual recess was a sacrifice by the lawmakers to ensure the conclusion of the ministerial screening. Unlike his first term when he appointed only 36 ministers, one per each state, President Buhari nominated more ministers, adding one person from each geo-political zone which brought the total ministerial nominees’ to 43. Anambra, Bauchi, Edo, Kaduna, Kano, Kwara and Lagos states got two ministerial nominees each. Out of the six geopolitical zones, only Northwest got two extra slots. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .