sunflower oil, seed and sunflower on the background of wooden boards The Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC) on Wednesday urged Nigerians to take advantage of opportunities existing in sunflower business across the globe. Mr Olusegun Awolowo, Executive Director/Chief Executive Officer of the Council, gave the advice during a one-day sensitisation workshop held in Kano. The theme of the workshop was: “Development and Promotion of the Sunflower Value Chain in Nigeria’’. Awolowo, who was represented by the Deputy Director, Product Development Department, Mr Samuel Oyeyipo, said the demand for Nigerian sunflower products was gradually growing both locally and internationally. He stressed the need to enhance capacity building for farmers and exporters. “We will not relent in our efforts until the agricultural sector is adequately positioned to take advantage of opportunities existing in the international market across the globe,’’ Awolowo said. Hajiya Binta Ahmed, Permanent Secretary, Kano State Ministry of Commerce, Trade and Industry, said sunflower had been recognised as an element of the extractive industry with high economic potential. According to her, sunflower has greatly contributed to the economic advancement of many developed, developing and even underdeveloped countries. “Kano State is lucky to be blessed with good fertile land scape for cultivation of sunflower which if fully harnessed, we can compete with the oil-producing states in Nigeria,’’ Ahmed said. Mr Obasi Sunday, Desk Officer, Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, in a paper titled: “Development of Sunflower Value Chain, Provision of Seeds for Increased Productivity ’’, said sunflower had nutritional and health benefits. Other presenters highlighted human, animal and industrial uses of sunflower as edible oil, animal feeds and wall paints. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that all the stakeholders were selected from the 44 local government areas of the state. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .