Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari Tuesday sent the list of 43 ministerial nominees for screening and confirmation as ministers to the National Assembly. Some of the names on the list include former Akwa Ibom State governor, Godswill Akpabio, Buhari campaign spokesperson, Festus Keyamo, and Senator Gbemisola Saraki. The list received by the senate came almost two months after the president was sworn in for a second term. Also on the list are top politicians the former governor of Ekiti State, Niyi Adebayo,  Senator Olutayo Alasoadura from Ondo State, immediate past governor of Osun State, Rauf Aregbesola and Senator Olurunnimbe Mamora. Former ministers who will be returning include Rotimi Amaechi former minister of transportation, former minister of power and works Raji Fashola, former minister of education Adamu Adamu, and former minister of information Lai Mohammed. Osagie Ehinire, who served as minister of state for health also made the cut. The full list reads: Okechukwu Oga from Abia State, Muhammadu Musa Bello from Adamawa, Senator Godswill Akpabio from Akwa Ibom, Senator Chris Ngige, Sharon Ikpeazu from Anambra,.
Others are: Adamu Adamu, Ambassador Mariah Katagum from Bauchi, Timipriye Sylva from Bayelsa, Senator George Akume from Benue State, Mustapha Baba from Borno, Goody Eddy Agba from Cross Rivers, Festus KEYAMO from Delta, Dr. Ogbonnayya Onu from Ebonyi. Also among the nominees are: Dr. Osagie Ehinire, Clement Agba from Edo, Richard Adeniyi Adebayo from Ekiti, Geoffrey Onyema from Enugu, Ali Isa Ibrahim Patani from Gombe, Emeka Nwajuba from Imo, Suleiman H.Adamu from Jigawa, Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed, Dr. Muhammed Mahmood from Kaduna. The list also includes Sabo Nanono, Major General Salihi Magashi (rtd) from Kano, Senator Hadhi Sirika from Katsina, Abubakar Malami from Kebbi , Ramatu Tijjani from Kogi, Lai Mohammed, Gbemisola Saraki from Kwara. Babatunde Raji Fasola and Adeleke Mamora from Lagos, Mohammed Abdullahi from Nasarawa, Architect Olamilekan Adegbiti from Ogun, Ambassador Zuberu Dada from Niger, Senator Tayo Alasoadura from Ondo, Rauf Aregbesola from Osun, Sunday Dare from Oyo, Pauline Tallen from Plateau, Rotimi Amaechi from Rivers are equally among the President ‘s nominees. Others are Muhammed Margarito Danhyaddi from Sokoto, Saleh Mamman from Taraba, Abubakar Ali from Yobe and Sadia Umar Farooq from Zamfara. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .