As 529 Intending Pilgrims Depart Kano for Saudi Arabia. National hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON) has concluded plans to inaugurate a 500 apartments accommodation in Kano. Chairman of the commission Barrister Abdullahi Muktar revealed the plans during an inspection visit to Kano. Barrister Muktar’s visit came when the first batch of intending pilgrims from Kano departed Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano for this year’s hajj in Saudi Arabia. The NAHCON boss who spoke with journalists shortly after the inspection explained that the accommodation, when completed will serve as transit lodge for pilgrims in Kano. Alhaji Muktar stressed that the accommodation will end ugly experience that pilgrims mostly witness at hajj camp while waiting for flight departure. He said besides the pilgrims transit lodge project, the commission’s medical facility in Kano has reached advance stage of completion. “The accommodation will be built to serve as transit lodge for our pilgrims who mostly spend nights at open places in the hajj camp. Some are either waiting for the flight schedule while some with peculiar issues that warrant them staying more than a day at hajj camp. So this lodge will be there to accommodate them. ” lOur intention is, this accommodation will be constructed to meet high standard hotel such that after hajj seasson, season, it will serve commercial purpose”. Alhaji Muktar expressed satisfaction on pilgrims welfare and general preparation of hajj 2019 by Kano state Pilgrims board. Meanwhile, 529 intending pilgrims from Kano have been airlifted on Boeing 747, Max airline to Madina, Saudi Arabia, early hours on Friday. Speaking with journalists shortly after their departure, executive secretary of Kano state Pilgrims board, Alhaji Mohammad Abba Danbatta said the first set of Kano contingents include 320 males and 209 females. Alhaji Mohammad said the first batch were drawn from 12 local government areas include those of Doguwa, Bichi, Bebeji, Bagwai, Bunkure and Gabazawa. Others, were from Nassarawa, Garun-Mallam, Karaye, Shanonon, Kumbotso and Rano local government areas. The ES said the next batch will depart on Saturday 13th July, 2019. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .