Asides being extremely healthy, delicious and nutritious, there are several health benefits to gain from consuming bananas. You might be already eating a lot of bananas or you might be someone who is looking for reasons to increase your fruit intake. In any both cases, you need to know these major banana benefits. Banana contains nutrients that help to moderate sugar levels in the body. Bananas are rich in pectin, a type of fiber that gives the flesh its spongy structural form. Unripe bananas contain resistant starch, which acts like soluble fiber and escapes digestion. Both pectin and resistant starch may moderate blood sugar levels after meals and reduce appetite by slowing the emptying of your stomach. Bananas contain a lot of iron, which stimulates the production of red blood cells. Bananas also contain vitamin B6, which regulates blood glucose levels, helping people with anemia. Banana contains fiber (pectin and resistant starch) and dietary fiber has been linked to many health benefits, including improved digestion. These fibers may feed your friendly gut bacteria and safeguard against colon cancer. Bananas can be eaten when a person has gastritis and heartburn, and they restore the minerals lost when a person suffers from diarrhea. On average, each banana contains around 27 mg of magnesium. This mineral is responsible for producing a good mood and healthy sleep. Although no study has directly tested the effects of bananas on weight loss, banana has several attributes that should make it a weight-loss-friendly-food. Bananas contain few calories and eating more fiber from vegetables and fruits like bananas has repeatedly been linked to lower body weight and weight loss. Banana nutrients | Photo – Brightside The potassium contained in bananas protects your muscles from cramps, whilst the carbohydrates provide you with enough energy to endure a heavy workout. Bananas are a great dietary source of potassium which is a mineral that is essential for heart health — especially blood pressure control. Furthermore, bananas contain a decent amount of magnesium, which is also important for heart health. Fruits and vegetables are excellent sources of dietary antioxidants, and bananas are no exception. They contain several types of potent antioxidants, including dopamine and catechins which can help with a reduced risk of heart disease and degenerative illnesses. Unripe bananas are a great source of resistant starch. Therefore, they may help improve insulin sensitivity. It is noteworthy that more studies should be conducted on bananas and insulin sensitivity. As a good dietary source of potassium, bananas may be especially beneficial for maintaining healthy kidneys. Eating a banana several times a week may reduce your risk of kidney disease by up to 50%. SOURCE The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment