Healthcare providers in the country have been called upon to leverage their training and communicate with empathy to ensure best treatment outcomes. Chief Medical Director (CMD), Ifako-Ijaiye General Hospital, Dr Olushola Amure, made the call at a stakeholders’ forum organised by Association of Community Pharmacists of Nigeria (ACPN), King Zone, held at Ifako Ijaiye, Lagos State. Delivering a paper entitled ‘Improving Treatment Outcomes through better Patient-Healthcare Provider Communication’, the CMD, represented by Dr Toyin Aiyelotan, said practitioners must continue to build competence in their questioning, explaining, listening and relational skills to be able to consistently create a good rapport with their patients for desired outcomes. The medical practitioner, who identified low literacy level, stress due to work overload, language, attitudinal and emotional issues as barriers to effective communication, said such factors could lead to discontinuation of care or medication, patient dissatisfaction, unnecessary laboratory investigations leading to resource wastage, among others. He advised patients to be free and open to share their concerns and seek clarification when in doubt. Amure encouraged Nigerians to go for regular checks, adhere to treatment plans and avoid self-medication. Speaking on ‘Improving Quality of Health through Healthy Lifestyles and assessing quality Pharmaceutical Care’, Managing Director of Merit Healthcare Limited, Dr Obaloluwa Ojo, stressed the need for rational use of medications and the unique place the pharmacist occupies in medicare. He harped on healthy living, choice of diet, physical activities and avoiding high-risk sexual behaviours, among others. Coordinator, ACPN planning committee, Tolulope Ajayi, said the objective of the programme was to explore avenues for residents of Lagos, especially Ifako-Ijaiye, to see themselves as key stakeholders on issues relating to their health, thereby improving treatment outcomes. The programme is to get Nigerians to embrace modern approaches to healthcare, which is preventive medicine, involving various roles individuals must play to ensure they do not fall sick and when they do, have access to good healthcare, he added. Participants at the event called on government, the private sector and research institutes to engage in research for quality inputs to healthcare outcomes. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .