 Governor of Niger State, Abubakar Sani Bello. Photo/Twitter/GovNiger  Alhaji Ahmed Matane, Secretary to the State Government (SSG) reiterated this in a statement by his Information Officer, Tanko Lawal in Minna on Monday. Matane was speaking during the commissioning of rotational grazing project in Bobi, Mariga Local Government Area of the state. The project consists of 21 paddocks provided by Schools for Africa, a non-governmental organisation led by the Director, Miss Phyllis Sortor. The SSG explained that measures had been put in place to make the grazing reserve serve as an example to other states on how to address farmers and herders crisis. He disclosed that the Bobi grazing reserve had been gazette as well as provision for infrastructures to make it functional. He advised the herdsmen to safeguard the facilities from vandals and maintain the natural ecosystem in order to achieve the set goals and objectives. Matane urged leaders of the herdsmen at the reserve to be very vigilant and be security conscious and to report all suspicious characters and movements. “Security is everybody’s responsibility; therefore, all hands must be on deck in complementing government efforts toward safeguarding lives and property of the people,’’ he said. Also, Dr Jonathan Wasa, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries, assured the herdsmen that the state government would continue to execute projects that are beneficial to them. He disclosed that the state government went ahead to establish Ruga settlement in spite of the suspension of the project by the Federal Government because of its immense benefit to the state. Sortor also disclosed that the planned rotational grazing system was being practiced successfully all over the world to feed cattle and prevent desertification. Malam Ardo Abubakar, Chief of Fulanis at the reserve, urged government to hasten up with the provision of additional vaccination centre as well as construction of more feeder roads to ease movement.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .