 [FILES] Speakers included the Executive Secretary, Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), Simbi Wabote; Vice Chancellor, Federal University of Petroleum Resources, Prof Akaehomen Ibhodode; and President, Institute of Non-Destructive Testing Nigeria (INDTN), Johnson Umukoro.<br />PHOTO: SweetCrudeRepors  NCDMB is expected to fund the acquisition of seismic interpretation software and geosciences workstations for six Nigerian universities in an attempt to deepen knowledge in oil and gas exploration and production Nigeria. Executive Secretary of the NCDMB, Simbi Wabote, who disclosed this at the opening of training for university lecturers on the OpendTect seismic interpretation software, said about 18 lecturers from six universities will acquire knowledge on the use of the software. Wabote identified the six universities as Niger Delta University, Wilberforce Land, Bayelsa State; Federal University of Technology, Owerri, Imo State; Federal University of Technology, Minna, Niger State; Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, Kaduna State; Federal University of Technology, Akure, Ondo State; and the University of Maiduguri, Borno State. According to him, there is a need to improve education in the area of geosciences as well as geology, adding that the software and geosciences workstations were provided for the institutions by ExxonMobil, South Atlantic Petroleum (Sapetro), and Chevron. He said: “We will continue to partner with Danvic Petroleum and her overseas partner, dGB Earth Sciences, Netherlands. We are indeed pleased that dGB Earth Sciences provided the OpendTect seismic interpretation software free of charge. It is worthwhile emphasizing that the cost of this software for the six universities, amount to over $1.2 million.” Managing Director of Danvic Petroleum, Dr. Mayowa Afe, said training the lecturers will enhance the training of students in geology and geophysics, to make them much more competitive in the labour market, especially in the oil and gas sector. Afe declared that Danvic Petroleum and its partner were committed to the provision of subsequent upgrade at no cost to the universities, adding that they will continue to give the necessary support to the institutions free of charge after training the lecturers.
 
“It is also important that our university curriculum is reviewed to reflect the realities of today and the needs of present day employers. This will help increase the employment potential of our graduates. This is a proposal I will put forward for NCDMB consideration,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .