Black Man Eating Photo Ebony Magazine Every human being in all age range and group must cater adequately for their health.  However, for some age range, from 30 years old and above, there are some foods that should be avoided once you are at this age. Below are some of the foods to be avoided: Yes, I know they taste better, however, they are not good for your health. This is because after 30, collagen production slows and elastin, the protein that keeps skin firm, begins to break down, causing fine lines to form. Although it’s impossible to stop the aging process, it’s possible to keep your youthful complexion later by cutting back on sugar, a nutrient that’s been shown to accelerate wrinkling and sagging. Furthermore, soft drinks like Coke and Pepsi are said to be laced with potentially cancer-causing dyes and are the primary source of added sugar . Not only does sugar negatively impact ovulation, but it’s also been linked to poorer sperm motility, too. Also, Medical researchers claim that alcohol sucks the moisture out of your skin. This temporarily makes fine lines more noticeable. Overtime, if you continue to take beer, it causes the skin to lose elasticity and form wrinkles. Therefore, it is better to slow down on the intake of these drinks. In addition, butter alternatives like margarine are often made with partially-hydrogenated oils. This type of fat is linked to heart disease, and it also accelerates the skin’s aging process. Moreover, it has been researched that Pizza is one of the world’s most popular junk foods. Most pizzas are made with unhealthy ingredients, including highly refined dough and heavily processed meat. Pizza also tends to be extremely high in calories. This is not too good for your health. Note that, this does not mean you should totally throw out these foods, you can reduce your intake of the foods. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment 