 Minister of Communication, Adebayo Shittu. Photo/twitter/HMAdebayoShittu  The ministry described the situation as problematic and worrisome. Speaking during a meeting between the ministry and a delegation of HP computer manufacturer in Abuja, the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Communications, Musa Istifanus, who was represented by Director of ICT, Mrs. Monilola Udoh, said urgent measures must be taken to tackle the challenge. Citing the case of HP, which currently battles activities of counterfeiters in the country, Udoh said the Federal Government will embark on general survey on HP toners and partner the computer manufacturer to procure only genuine products for maximum output. This, according to her, would help to ensure that public funds are managed appropriately and check the menace of counterfeit products in public offices. She informed that ministry takes a lead to survey all HP products in the Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs). According to her, “we will encourage registration with HP to supply genuine products through their certified engineers and distributors to put an end to the ugly trend of illegal distributors, who make consumers to pay more for bad products that end up not serving their purposes.” Udoh regretted that there are so many fake products out in the Nigerian market hence, she charged the company to intensify enlightenment campaigns and workshops to educate consumers on the indicators for identifying fake products and their implications on their (consumers) economy. The director also urged them to put up a workshop for all procurement directors in the MDAs to sensitise them on the negative effects of counterfeit products, how they affect manpower and how to avoid falling victims so that public funds would not be wasted on buying products that would not serve their purposes. She stated that counterfeit is a general problem, thus, Federal Ministry of communications would partner the company to avoid patronizing fake products and secure toners service program from it (HP) to safe the Federal government from avoidable costs In a remark at the meeting, Manager, HP Company, Emmanuel Eze, said the firm is determined to provide consumers satisfaction having put in place certain control measures such as buying the products through authorised distributors and retailers, monitoring their activities while enlightening the beneficiaries on how to avoid counterfeit products. In a presentation at the meeting, the business manager (HP), Olamide Ojo, said there are so many counterfeit products in the market, which according to him is a global phenomenon not peculiar to Nigeria alone, where illegal manufacturers fake their products to look like the originals which at the end failed to serve the consumers. According to him, the ugly trend of counterfeit products has not only cost the company millions of dollars but has also cost unsuspecting consumers their hard earned money and rid them from consumer satisfaction. He said the meeting, which was meant to address the increasing rate of counterfeiting HP products in the Nigerian market with the view to address the menace so that the Federal government and unsuspecting consumers would not lose their hard earned money to buy fake products that would not stand the test of time after they were purchased. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .