 Nigeria Liquify Natural Gas (NLNG)  Speaking at an interactive session on, Innovation in Electric Power Solutions, in Lagos, recently, LCCI President, Babatunde Ruwase, said there was an urgent need to change the narrative and focus on innovative ideas that can enable practical solutions. He added that the theme of the interactive session provided a platform for reshaping the mind-set of Nigerians, helping to champion the birth of new ideas and practical ways to make the power sector work effectively to promote the country’s economic development. Ruwase said: “Reforming the power sector in Nigeria must align with the global energy direction of increasing renewables in the energy mix. Dr. Ngene’s award-winning work further presents an opportunity for Nigeria to harness new discoveries in solving her power supply challenges. “His invention has positive implications on renewable energy development that the country can benefit from. It is believed that Dr. Ngene’s work will expand the energy market in Nigeria with efficient energy storage.” The forum, which was organised as a result of the NLNG Nigeria Prize for Science featured the 2018 winner, Dr. Peter Ngene. Ngene clinched the prize based on his work, “Nanostructured metal hydrides for the storage of electric power from renewable energy sources and for explosion prevention in high voltage power transformers”. In her remarks, the General Manager, External Relations and Sustainable Development, Mrs Eyono Fatayi-Williams, said in recognition of the need to encourage more work in finding solutions to electric power generation in the country, NLNG used the science prize competition in 2018 to encourage research works on the theme of that year’s competition – Innovations in Electric Power Solutions. She remarked further that a renewed focus on electric power generation and conservation is definitely one area which can offer huge business opportunities in the country, calling on the industry to focus on renewable sources of energy to improve the Nigerian situation, promote better energy output as well as align the country with the global clamour for cleaner energy sources, as the world fights global warming. “NLNG has the vision of being a global LNG company, helping to build a better Nigeria. We have been driving that vision through our numerous CSR initiatives across the country and especially in our host community, Bonny Island, where we provide over 95% stable electric power supply for over a decade now. It will be a great achievement if this be can replicated. We believe the country has the resources but we need the industrial will-power by the private sector to make it happen, even if it happens gradually,” she added. Dr. Ngene, in his presentation, titled, “Nanomaterials for Energy and Power Application”, highlighted the potential of his work in the area of storing hydrogen, storage battery for renewable energy and detection of hydrogen leaks in transformers to prevent explosion. He said explosion in transformers was one of the major causes of power outages in Nigeria, adding that through Nanotechnology, a cheap way of detecting hydrogen to eliminate such explosions is possible. He remarked that energy storage was the main challenge in the use of renewable energy sources. He added that his work provides opportunities for efficient energy storage, making cheap and affordable rechargeable batteries for rural areas, for novel sensors for Diabetes, for conversion of carbon into useful fuels and for use in cooling homes with less energy consumption.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .