Gbenga Adebowale country sales manager Nigeria Vertiv (left); Wale Ajisebutu, chairman/CEO 21st Century Technologies Limited; Noureddine Aouda, reginal director, North West Africa, Vertiv; and Pierre Havenga, managing director, Middle East and Africa, Vertiv during a visit to 21st Century Technologies Limited. The business leadership team of Vertiv, the global leader in designing, building and servicing critical infrastructure that enables vital applications for data centers and communication networks recently visited 21st Century Technologies Limited to explore possible partnership for roll out of Data Centre in Nigeria. The American, Ohio-based, provider of equipment and services for datacenters, Vertiv brings together hardware, software, analytics and ongoing services to ensure its customers’ vital applications run continuously, perform optimally and grow with their business needs. Vertiv’s team on the visit include; Noureddine Aouda reginal director, North West Africa; Pierre Havenga, managing director, Middle East and Africa; and Gbenga Adebowale country sales manager Nigeria Vertiv Wale Ajisebutu, chairman/CEO, 21st Century Technologies Limited, received the team and conducted them round the company’s state-of-the-art ICT complex. 21st Century Technologies Limited is already offering a complete suite of fully managed hosting services from its own data centres in Lagos, Nigeria, providing an array of strategic, financial, and operational benefits. Only recently, the company obtained a Tier IV certification from Uptime Institute, the first time for any telecommunications company in Africa. Also by the certification, 21st Century Technologies has become the most certified ICT firm in the country Uptime Institute provides standards globally for the design, construction and operations of data centres in the IT industry. With its data centre tier standard & certifications, management & operations reviews, efficient IT stamp of approval, and accredited educational curriculum for data centre professionals; Uptime Institute helps organizations optimize critical IT assets while managing costs, resources and efficiency. By this certification, 21st Century Technologies’ data centre cannot go down for more than 23 minutes in a year. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .