A cloud of confusion still trails the circumstances surrounding the untimely death of a sixteen-year-old boy, Ezekiel Chukwu in FESTAC town, Lagos State, as police authorities are yet to unearth the cause of his death. Chukwu had disappeared mysteriously on the evening of Sunday, July 7, from 41 Road FESTAC, close to the local government secretariat. According to The Guardian’s investigation, Chukwu, a Catholic altar server in one of the popular church at 41 Road, had attended the first and second services in the morning and returned home. He left home later in the evening to return for a special programme at the church but his lifeless body with blood dripping from his mouth and nose was found beside a pool in a club along 21 Road, FESTAC town, the next day, July 8. Father of the boy, Emmanuel Chukwu, struggling to be barely audible due to the death of his son, said: “We don’t know exactly what happened, all we know is that he went to church as an altar server with the All Saints’ Anglican Communion Church. He attended the two services for 7:00a.m. and 10:00a.m. and came home to rest. There was an annual special programme in the church in the evening and after resting, he left for the programme before his mother and brother. “Some people said they saw him walking toward the other road in the church and that was the last time he was seen. The mum called me to ask whether he has gotten home but I was not at home then. When I got home, he wasn’t at home still, we were praying and hoping he returns.” “Disturbed by his absence, I went to the church and its environs at about 11:30p.m. with the hope of finding him. I returned home at 2:00a.m. At dawn, we returned to the church, spoke with some people and they confirmed that he was seen when the church’s special programme was suppose to begin. “I reported to the police at FESTAC police station, the police advised that I should come back after 24 hours. Some hours later, an inspector called me asking that I should come to Baft Club at 21 Road, FESTAC. When I got there, I saw my boy floating in the swimming pool inside the compound. He was then taken to the mortuary. “How he got to the club is what we don’t know but we are looking up to the police to help us find out. The management of the club hasn’t offered any useful information yet. The management said the body might have been dumped there. The police said they are doing their investigation but the family is planning to do an autopsy before burying him. The only thing I noticed is that when they dropped him on the ground, blood came from the mouth and nose,” he narrated. When The Guardian visited the area, it was learnt from sources that contrary to denial by the club’s management, they overheard some party-like sounds from the compound that Sunday evening. However, management of the club has denied ever hosting a party on the day of Ezekiel’s disappearance. Efforts to further get reactions from the Lagos Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Bala Elkana, on the incident proved abortive, as calls and messages sent to him were not returned or replied as at the time of filing this report.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .