Alexander Iwobi (Photo by PHILL MAGAKOE / AFP) Super Eagles attacker, Alex Iwobi has given reasons why the team have recorded only two goals in three matches played so far in the on-going Egypt 2019 African Cup of Nations. Against the expectations of many Nigerians back home, the Super Eagles struggled to score just a goal against Burundi through substitute Odin Ighalo, and also recorded the same slim margin against Guinea with defender Kenneth Omeruo accounting for the goal. The players went to sleep in their last group match against Madagascar, conceding two goals to surrender their leadership of the group. Iwobi, who plies his trade with Arsenal in England, told The Guardian at the team’s Helnan Palestine hotel in Alexandria that scoring goals against an African opposition has been difficult. “It is really difficult to break down the defence of an African team,” he said. “In African football, the players are more physical than what we experience in Europe and other parts of the world. That is why there have been few goals in this competition.” Iwobi, a versatile attacker brought up under the guidance of legendary Austin Jay-Jay Okocha, has established himself in Europe as one of the young stars with good command of talent on the pitch. He had an amazing season with the Gunners in the Premier League and Uefa Europa League, though his effort could not see Arsenal pass Chelsea in the continental final. He revealed to The Guardian that all remaining teams in the round of 16 have equal chances of winning the Afcon title, but added that the Super Eagles have an advantage over the others. “All the teams are good, but I think the Super Eagles are in a better position of winning the Afcon title because we have the players who can deliver on big occasions. We are in this competition to win.” As a young boy, Iwobi, who was born in Nigeria in 1996, was always learning football tricks from his uncle, Okocha, who later became a strong part of his professional development. His family had moved to Turkey when the footballer was just two years old. His parents eventually settled down in England. One of his earliest football memories was going to watch Okocha in training. Iwobi has been at the Emirates since he started his football journey, having joined the Arsenal academy at the tender age of eight. He found it difficult to stamp his feet at the club during his early years and risked being dropped from the academy when he was 14. The worry spurred him to work harder and the resurgence of desire was evident as he was later called up to England’s youth team. In 2015, Iwobi was offered a professional contract by Arsenal, and later made his first-team debut during a League Cup fixture against Sheffield Wednesday. Since then, Iwobi has made himself a regular fixture for the Gunners with his impressive displays, which have seen him attract interest from several European clubs. He has scored 12 goals and 16 assists in 100 Premier League games for Arsenal since he made his EPL debut in 2015, At international level, Iwobi was eligible to play for the Three Lions of England or the Super Eagles, but his decision to pledge his allegiance to Nigeria was influenced by his family and uncle (Okocha), as well as the reception he received upon his arrival in Nigeria. He made his international debut as a second-half substitute during a friendly game against DR Congo in March 2015, and since then, Iwobi has been one of the regular players for the Super Eagles. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .