 NAICOM  The Federal Government has charged insurance operators not to work against the current industry recapitalisation move by the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), which is aimed at taking the industry to lofty heights.President Muhammadu Buhari, represented by the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Finance, Dr. Mahmoud Isa-Dutse, gave the charge at the just-concluded 2019 National Insurance Conference, in Abuja, themed: Disruption, Innovation and Business Growth. 
   
Buhari assured that government will continue to support the industry to enable it contribute effectively to national growth, while urging operators to support the recapitalisation project, as this will deepen insurance penetration, which remains a responsibility for all stakeholders.
   
Speaking, the Commissioner for Insurance, Mohammed Kari, stressed the need for radical reforms in the industry, accentuated by the disruptive impact of digital innovations in areas such as online sales technologies, machine learning, the Internet of things, advanced analytics, and virtual reality, among others.  “This recapitalisation exercise, like every past reform, presents both opportunities and new challenges. As operators, we must begin now and not later to address our minds to the following questions: How do we maximise the use of the additional capital to generate superior returns to investors? How does technology help the industry to deliver superior service and deepen insurance penetration? 
   
“How do we develop a data pool that supports improved pricing of risks underwritten and innovative products driven by consumer insights? What do we do to develop and attract the right skills and talents that can match the fast pace of technology revolution? 
   
“How do we harness the values inherent in partnering with other industries like telecoms and banks to deepen insurance penetration? How do we partner with various arms of government like the NPF, Customs, and Fire Service, to ensure compulsory insurances are enforced? Above all, how can we cooperate better than we currently do for the good of all stakeholders?”
   
The Director-General, Budget Office, Ben Akabueze, implored insurance operators to embrace the recapitalisation, and ensure they revise the notion that they are the poor cousins of the banks.He posited that the industry is ripe for technological disruption, adding that insurance remains one of the tools for mobilising savings, hence, the need for consolidation.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .