 Coscharis  Under the partnership, Renault will make in-road back into the Nigeria market next week, led by Coscharis Motors Plc, one of the subsidiaries of the Coscharis Group. To kick start this strong cooperation which involves both local production and distribution, two of the Renault variants namely Logan and Duster will be assembled in the existing Coscharis Assembly facility in Lagos. Additionally, Renault Kwid and Renault Oroch will be imported as Complete Built Unit (CBU) in due course of the partnership. “With a population of over 200 million, Nigeria is a strategic African country where Groupe Renault will extend its footprint. The Coscharis Group is a recognized player in car (vehicle) assembly and distribution.  Thanks to their expertise and our products adapted to the local needs, we will be able to answer immediately to the customers’ demand in Nigeria” said Fabrice Cambolive, SVP and Chairman of the Africa, Middle-East India region of Groupe Renault. Already, Groupe Renault is leading the African continent with an 18% market share. In 2018, Groupe Renault sold more than 216 000 vehicles in Africa. The most important countries in sales volume are currently Morocco, Algeria, South Africa, Egypt. The group’s objective is to maintain its leadership within these countries and respond to the demand of the new emerging middle class of the countries like Nigeria. Commenting on this new business collaboration, the President / CEO of Coscharis Group, Dr. Cosmas Maduka said: ‘’this partnership is to showcase another initiative from our great organization through one of our subsidiaries, Coscharis Motors, to further create value as a key player in the automobile industry in Nigeria; we are glad to celebrate the confidence the renowned brand, Renault reposed in us to represent them in Nigeria. This milestone marks another step in the evolution of our organization towards remaining timeless in its relevance’’. According to Maduka, this partnership is to further delight the esteemed loyal customers and prospects alike, especially towards providing them a bouquet of more options and value for money. In his words: “We are committed to broadening our dealership scope when such opportunity as this happens, since it is a strategic opportunity to deliver capable, refined and cost-effective vehicle models to our ever loyal customers’’. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .