Lagos was introduced to a different kind of fun from the 2th to 28th of June with the second edition of Budweiser’s BUDXLagos, a global programme that connects and spotlights outstanding creative minds in music and pop culture from around the world. Focusing on exciting emerging scenes – from Tokyo, Ho Chi Minh, Lagos and beyond – BUDX delivers the absolute best that these cities have to offer across cultural hot points, including music, art, technology, fashion, film and entertainment. BUDX Lagos has with its two editions successfully created a platform that not only encourages Nigerians to express their inner fierceness, it also makes room for the them to hang out with their favourite superstars, affording them the opportunity to ask such stars questions they may never have had the opportunity to pose. In conjunction with Mixmag, Budweiser succeeded at creating an atmosphere of good music, fun games and a great tasting beer for LDA’s who welcomed the new and exciting experience. Split into Day Time Programming and Night Time Programming, participants were greeted with a blend of mind-boggling experiences, including homegrown artistes who shared insights on several topics around music, fashion, Nigerian culture, Nollywood and women thriving in entertainment via carefully curated sessions. These sessions saw celebrities like Banky W, Adesuwa Etomi, Toke Makinwa, DJ Obi, DJ Lambo, Reminisce and Teni The Entertainer, among others, shed inside information on how to become a successful entertainer in Nigeria’s super competitive entertainment industry.  The master classes, which were billed to last for only a couple of hours, eventually took up so much more time, as participants couldn’t get enough of the celebrities. It was indeed intriguing sitting across the room from these stars who had no airs about them as they shared real life experiences with a few of their fans turned friends. At the end of the daily sessions, guests were ushered into a hall at Queen’s Park, Lekki, which had been transformed into a concert with strobes, free cold beers and popping music. It was impossible to sit with disc jockeys like DJ Obi, DJ Nana, DJ Jillionaire, DJ Krowd Kontroller and the others holding down the musical forte, guests going wild on the dance floor dancing to their unique mesh of oldies and new hit songs that got people off their seat, busting a move. There was a game center littered with video games, a tattoo parlor, and an illusion room specifically created to facilitate the best selfies ever. Talking about photos, the hall was so exquisitely decorated, it didn’t matter where you were, participants were sure to get professional-like photos that didn’t need any filters. Budweiser outdid itself on this one, presenting fans of the brand with a free concert, a date with stars, alongside free food and drinks for three straight days. It was a fun, educative, entertaining and an innovative mesh of quality planning all wrapped up in one great week, a week that will remain unmatched for a long, long time. See photos from the event below: