Managing director Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), Capt. Fola Akinkuotu The Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) has assured airlines and other airspace users that the nation’s airspace is safe for seamless and economic air navigation. Managing Director of NAMA, Capt. Fola Akinkuotu, while receiving the Chief Operating Officer of Ibom Air in Lagos, explained that the agency had taken drastic steps to tackle communication challenges, and has made significant progress too. Akinkuotu said this has seen to the upgrading of communication infrastructure in phases. According to him, radio communication in the ground control, covering 65 nautical miles at the 32 air traffic control units in Nigerian airports is perfect, and this was done under phase one of the project. He added that the second phase, which is the tower control, also covering 65 nautical miles and critical for landing and takeoff, is perfectly working in all the 32 airports in the country. The third phase, which he referred to as “approach communication,” covering up to 130 nautical miles, is working perfectly in all the 32 air traffic control units in the country. Akinkuotu admitted that although the last phase, which is the Area Control or Upper Airspace Communication, may have a few challenges. He attributed these to the creation of new routes. Concerted efforts, he said, were being made to address these challenges, one of which was the deployment of the Total VHF Coverage of Nigeria in 2010, which was limited by the architecture of eight VHF remote radio stations deployed then. He added that the agency had just taken delivery of Extended Range VHF radio systems to replace old the radios in eight remote sites, while six more are to be added, making them 14 in number. “There is also the deployment of 54 VSAT nodes, inside the Aeronautical Information Services Automation project. This project has lingered through all the regimes in NAMA, but we are currently making efforts to see to the final takeoff of the automation project which we believe would boost our communication system,” Akinkuotu said. The NAMA boss said that in line with the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) Aviation System Block Upgrade (ASBU), which stipulates that Air Navigation Service Providers (ANSPs) provide alternative means of communication, the agency in 2015 deployed the Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Contract/Controller Pilot Data Link Communication (ADS-C/CPDLC) in Kano and Lagos Area Control Centres (ACCs) to decongest radio frequency, saying that the facility was up and running in the entire airspace. “The high-powered Very High Frequency (VHF) Jotron radios installed at Lagos and Kano were recently commissioned by the former Minister of State, Aviation, Sen. Hadi Sirika, who tested them with a British Airways pilot and the pilot replied him with 5/5, meaning “excellent” and this facility is available and serviceable. “We are awaiting the 2019 budget to extend the range of the Jotron radios, and when this is implemented on full terrestrial base systems, we would have the maximum range required to cover the entire airspace and beyond,” Akinkuotu said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .