 Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit  According to the firm, the 20 artisans were some of the returnee migrants from Europe who participated in the practical-oriented carpentry training aimed at contributing to the development of technical and vocational skills acquisition in Nigeria. The GIZ Cluster Coordinator for Sustainable Economic Development and Head of Skills Development for Youth Employment in Nigeria (SKYE), Hans-Ludwig Bruns, at the closing and handover ceremony of tools for Bosch GIZ-SKYE carpentry training in Lagos, said at the end of the programme, trainees will receive woodworking tool kits with the essential power tools needed by a carpenter. “This includes six professional Bosch power tools, such as a circular saw, jigsaw, routers, and planners to name a few and the accessories that will enable them to apply the newly- acquired skills and to start making a positive impact in the society,” he said. “GIZ SKYE programme is taking the challenge of addressing the unemployment of youth in Nigeria. Our collaboration with Bosch, is one of the ways we hope to improve employment opportunities. The quality of training and the exposure of the trainees to new tools and working techniques will affect their carpentry skills and are expected to have a positive impact on their quality of employment. The intervention also considers returning migrants and supports them to ensure their reintegration into the society,” The training, which was facilitated by Bosch expert trainer from Germany, is a pilot scheme, which would empower beneficiaries with modern methods of carpentry thereby improving their professional experience and their chance to gain employment or self-employment thereby creating a better life in their home country. Also speaking at the event, the Country Business Director, Bosch Power Tools, Frank Diermann, said: “The combination of woodworking tools has been selected to match the needs and requirements of professional carpentry moving from traditional hand tools to power tools which essentially reduces waste, increases production and profitability. The field trips and excursion organized is also expected to expose the participants to new ways of working.” The Skills Development for Youth Employment in Nigeria (SKYE) programme, is a four-year programme funded by the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ) and implemented by Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH. The SKYE programme focuses on the acquisition of knowledge and skills for the labour market through TVET to tackle unemployment and underemployment, root causes of irregular migration and socio-economic degradation in Nigeria.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .