 Nigerian soldiers stand at the ready at the headquarters of the 120th Battalion in Goniri, Yobe State, in Nigeria’s restive northeast. (Photo by AUDU MARTE / AFP)  The states most affected by terrorism that claimed many lives and property in a decade are Borno, Adamawa and Yobe. He made the assertion at Maiduguri International Airport while speaking to journalists on his promotion by President Muhammadu Buhari to Major General, saying he was ready for extraordinary feats, commitment and exemplary leadership in counter-terrorism operations. “I am committed more than ever before and I do realize the speed, urgency and the desire for us to quickly complete the remaining business,” he said, He said this kind of promotion was born out of effort in fighting Boko Haram insurgency, saying: “The remaining Boko Haram fighters still marauding in the theatre of war should lay down their arms, as quickly as possible. “It is only then I have a sense of fulfillment. But when some of them so decide not to surrender now that I have returned to Maiduguri re-invigorated and prepared to follow them up, we will force them to comply.”He said the insurgents should also join Nigerians to celebrate him by laying down their arms, insisting that laying down arms should be done quietly and unconditionally for a better society. Biu cautioned warned that the military would go after the terrorists who remain adamant, adding: “We will continue to go after them with greater force than have done before.” While assured that peace will soon return to the Northeast because the process of restoring peace has been ongoing.“One of our greatest achievements is that Nigerians have begun to understand that this war is not about Boko Haram and the military alone. It is a war against the Nigerian state,” he stated. He urged all Nigerians, irrespective of their beliefs to collaborate with security agents to deal with Boko Haram and defeat the terrorists as fast as possible, stressing that the insurgents and their collaborators should see reason to quickly lay down their arms or be forced to comply.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .