   Speaking with reporters on the lined up activities for the association’s annual week billed to commence tomorrow, the chairman, Dr Lukmon Adeoti said the awardees were selected after rigorous scrutiny. Adeoti said the association identifies with the awardees for their contribution to national development, integrity and readiness to support the growth of the sector. He listed the awardees to include governors Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State, his Akwa Ibom State counterpart, Udom Emmanuel, Olugbo of Ugbo kingdom, Oba Fredrick Obateru Akinruntan, deputy vice-chancellor, developmental services, Prof Folasade Tolulope Ogunsola , dean, faculty of science, Prof Adekunle Adeyinka  and rector, Federal School of Survey, Oyo, Dr. Dupe Niniola. Others include the Commissioner for Works in Cross River State, Epraim Inyangeye, Chairman VIXA Pharmaceutical company limited, Chief Ebuka Okafor, Principal partner, Wale Tawo & co, Chief Wale Taiwo, Chairman Petroleum Managers, Lagos, Chief Ademola Shabi. While Sanwo Olu would be honored with an award of excellence in the conceptualization of new ideas for national growth, Udom will receive the distinguished political leadership award. Akinruntan will receive an outstanding traditional ruler and great philanthropist award, while Adeyinka would be honored with the award of excellence in research and academic leadership. Other categories include seasoned political strategist award, entrepreneurial excellence and humanitarian award. The celebration will kick off tomorrow with a Jumat. service while there would be thanksgiving service on Sunday, July 21 at the UNILAG chapel. The annual general meeting and dinner will hold the same day in the evening at the Jelili Omotola hall where the awardees would be honored. He restated the association’s commitment to support the institution in its drive to offer qualitative education to its teeming students. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .