If the management of Chinese club, Shanghai Greenland Shenhua had its way, Super Eagles striker, Odion Ighalo will not stay a day longer in the team’s camp in the on-going Egypt 2019 African Cup of Nations. Ighalo, who came from the bench to rescue three points for Nigeria with his lone strike in the first group match against Burundi, told The Guardian yesterday that his club wants him to return to China immediately.
 
“The club needs my assistance badly and they are calling me to return to China. But I can’t abandon the Super Eagles in the middle of a competition,” he said. Ighalo left English Premier League side, Watford for Changchun Yatai in the Chinese Super League in a  £20 million deal before he switched to Shanghai Greenland Shenhua.
 
He described the Chinese Super League as ‘very tough and more challenging’ than what he experienced while playing in the English Premier League.Speaking with The Guardian at the team’s Helnan Palestine hotel yesterday, Ighalo said the defeat to Madagascar in Sunday’s last group match at the Alexandria stadium had thought them a big lesson.
 
“We were disappointed at the 0-2 loss to Madagascar. I must say we did not give our best in that match, but it won’t happen again because we are wiser now.”
 
Asked if the Super Eagles have what it takes to reach the final and win the Afcon title, Ighalo said: “Yes, we can do it. We have a good squad and our target is to win the trophy. If it happened that Ghana is our round of 16 opponents, we will face them squarely. Ghana is a good team, but we will triumph at the end of the day. But to beat Ghana, we have to create chances and score goals.” Meanwhile, Super Eagles captain, John Obi Mikel had to undergo a scan yesterday following the injury he sustained in Sunday’s last group match against Madagascar.Mikel was replaced in the second half of the match after putting up a not too impressive performance in the first half. He limped off the pitch as he was said to have received a knock on his right knee during the match.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .