 Nigeria’s coach Gernot Rohr (L) and his bench stand for the national anthem during the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (CAN) quarter final football match between Nigeria and South Africa at Cairo international stadium on July 9, 2019. (Photo by Khaled DESOUKI / AFP)  The Franco/German is set to sit down with his employers, the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), to evaluate his stewardship and decide on the way forward. The NFF President, Amaju Pinnick recently said the federation would not sack the former Bordeaux coach adding, however, that the federation would help him to become more efficient. With the retirement of Skipper John Obi Mikel, who is likely to be followed by the first-choice striker, Odion Ighalo, Rohr is looking to fill some of the positions that would be affected by the new development, as well as plugging the holes he noticed in the team at the African Nations Cup. Apart from the retiring players, among those that they may no longer feature in Rohr’s team are Leon Balogun, Daniel Akpeyi, John Ogu, and Ikechukwu Ezenwa. According to a source close to the coach, Rohr was disappointed by the performance of some of his trusted players, particularly Leon Balogun and Daniel Akpeyi and as such wants to have capable replacements before the World Cup qualifiers begin. “Balogun and Ogu are senior citizens in the team, but they disappointed when they were given the opportunity to play against Madagascar. “Balogun’s game has been going down since he relocated to England and at 30, the coach believes it is time to look at younger players. “He is still certain for a good partner for Troost-Ekong as Kenneth Omeruo has proved to be unreliable, but the Chelsea star will still maintain his squad place pending when there is a better alternative. “Ogu has not actually featured prominently in Rohr’s team, so the coach thinks it is time to let him go. He believes that given the opportunity, youngsters like Kelechi Nwakali, Osimhen and Dele Alampasu can plug the holes in the team.” The source said the coach is desperately in search of good goalkeepers from within and outside Nigeria, adding that Rohr has encouraged the NFF to look at how to get Arsenal young goalkeeper, Arthur Okonkwo to pledge allegiance to the Super Eagles. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .