Enough is Enough Executive director Yemi Adamolekun Sunday said Nigerian musician Timi Dakolo and his wife Busola Dakolo will have to consult their lawyer before honouring the Nigeria police invitation. Adamolekun spoke at a press conference in Lagos, where Timi Dakolo was present. “The Dakolos’ lawyer Falana will be responding to the petition filed against them on Monday,” Adamolekun said. “He will ask the police for further clarification and then take it from there.” Timi Dakolo, on Saturday, said a team of policemen camped outside his Lekki apartment, ostensibly to take him to Abuja for questioning. According to Dakolo, the occupants of the bus were armed with guns. “Strange men at house…. With guns,” the singer caption a photo of a white Toyota Hiace bus, with registration number Lagos BR932KSF. The police, however, confirmed that they were at the couples home to invite them for investigation over a petition filed them against bothering on criminal conspiracy, falsehood, mischief, and threat to life. Copies of two letters shared by Timi Dakolo on his Instagram page said they are to report at the police station on Wednesday, July 23. But Adamolekun affirmed that if the Dakolos will honour the invitation there will be a need for the police to transfer the case to Lagos. She said the Dakolos won’t go to Abuja to answer any question. Busola and Timi Dakolo accused the founder and senior pastor of the Commonwealth of Zion Assembly (COZA) Biodun Fatoyibo of rape. She alleged that the pastor raped her for the first time at her parent’s home and at another time in a secluded road path. She said the incidents occurred before she turned 18 and added that she lost her virginity to him. Her allegations prompted a wave of protest on social media while protesters also marched on the church’s locations in Lagos and Abuja. Fatoyinbo denied the allegations “in every measure”, saying, “I have never in my life raped anybody even as an unbeliever and I am absolutely innocent of this.” The pastor also threatened a lawsuit and proceeded on “leave of absence” more than 48 hours after the allegations were made. The claims have prompted a number of allegations on social media from women abused or raped by people in authority in religious circles, which some have called Nigeria’s #MeToo moment. About four persons have accused Fatoyinbo of sexual assault.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .