 France’s Nicolas Mahut (R) and France’s Edouard Roger-Vasselin (L) console each other after losing against Colombia’s Juan Sebastian Cabal and Colombia’s Robert Farah in their men’s doubles final on day twelve of the 2019 Wimbledon Championships at The All England Lawn Tennis Club in Wimbledon, southwest London, on July 13, 2019. (Photo by Ben STANSALL / AFP)  ‘Big Three’ dominate
— With Djokovic and Federer in the final, the winner of Sunday’s match will extend the streak of Grand Slam titles won by the ‘Big Three’ of the pair plus Rafael Nadal to 11 straight major titles. Since Federer won his first Grand Slam title at Wimbledon in 2003, just five Grand Slam finals have been contested by pairs of players outside the ‘Big Three’. Colombia’s Juan Sebastian Cabal (2L) and Colombia’s Robert Farah (L) celebrate beating France’s Nicolas Mahut (2R)  and France’s Edouard Roger-Vasselin (R) won their men’s doubles final on day twelve of the 2019 Wimbledon Championships at The All England Lawn Tennis Club in Wimbledon, southwest London, on July 13, 2019. (Photo by Daniel LEAL-OLIVAS / AFP)  Ken Rosewall is the only 37-year-old to have won a major singles title in that time – he won the 1972 Australian Open aged 37 years 62 days. Read More: Welcome to the Championships, Wimbledon 30-somethings still special
— The champion will extend the streak of Grand Slam titles won by players aged 30 or older. The last 12 Grand Slam titles – including at Wimbledon this year – will have been shared between players aged 30 or older. Djokovic chases fifth Wimbledon title
— Defending champion Djokovic is bidding to win his fifth Wimbledon title and equal Bjorn Borg and Laurie Doherty in fourth place on the all-time list. He is also chasing a 16th career major. Federer to level Navratilova with nine?
— Federer is bidding to become the second player in history to win nine Wimbledon singles titles after Martina Navratilova who won nine women’s singles. Federer is also after the 21st career Grand Slam title.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .