cybercrime Fresh investments, coupled with increased capacity building have become strategic to curbing the growing influence of cybercrime in Nigeria. The need for these emanated at the 2019 Cisco African Academy Cybersecurity conference, held at the Digital Bridge Institute (DBI) in Lagos. Acting Administrator, DBI, Mrs. Viola Askia-Usoro, said as more and more organisations adopt new ICT technologies in their operations and processes, cybercrimes or cyber-attacks have become the greatest threats to every business, as hundreds of attacks hit computer systems everywhere around the world. Askia-Usoro said it is estimated that 54 per cent of companies the world over, experience at least one cyber-attack every year. Making reference to a Sophos and Sidmach Technologies report, she said 60 per cent of businesses and organisations every year suffer cyber-attack in the forms of malware, phishing, ransomware, crypto jacking, among others. According to her, the Cyber Security Framework of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), underscores the importance of cybersecurity. “Most businesses try to prevent cyber-attacks by securing their networks using various antivirus software, establishing more secure networks and so forth, yet statistics show that a huge percentage of cyber breaches result from human errors thus re-emphasizing the need for awareness creation and capacity building.” She recalled that in 2018, DBI along with other industry stakeholders formulated the National Operational Standards in ICT trade areas. These standards once approved by the National Board for technical Education (NBTE), will form part of the National Skills Qualification Framework (NSQF), to help regulate trainers and professionals in the ICT industry in Nigeria. From his perspective, the General Manager, Cisco Nigeria and West African Countries, Olakunle Oloruntimehin, investments and capacity building have become critical in tackling the menace of cybercrime in the country, adding that the Cisco Networking Academy was created to bridge gaps in ICT development. Oloruntimehin disclosed that the Academy has trained about 150,000 youths in Nigeria, noting that its programme is a global ICT programme focused on ensuring skills development in the area of technology, ensuring that those who go through the programme are empowered and equipped to go into society to take on any job role. He said Cisco has trained about 690,000 people in Africa in 21 years, “but there is a renewed vigour, we shall be training one million in five years. We planned to train 125,000 in cybersecurity.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .