   De Werd, who spoke during a courtesy visit to the Founder of Women in Logistics and Transport (WILAT), Aisha Ali-Ibrahim, in Lagos, said: “Maersk’s vision is to be the global integrator of container logistics, and thus seeks to transform the industry, which can’t do without women’s participation.” De Werd, who is also the Global Head of Marketing for Safmarine, commended WILAT for championing the course of professional women in the transport and logistics profession since its establishment in 2013. She said Maersk realised the importance of women’s role in the sustainable development of the global economy, and has made a public commitment to empower women in trade, by signing a significant agreement with SheTrades Global. She pointed out that the SheTrades initiative, launched in 2015, seeks to connect one million women entrepreneurs to the global market by 2020, and Maersk believes diversity and inclusion are key levers to strengthening business results in the markets where it operates. “Our company creates an inclusive culture where employees from various backgrounds are encouraged to contribute to their fullest. In doing so, Maersk has established itself in a prime position to attract people from a wide talent pool, specifically increasing the gender and nationality diversity at senior levels in the organisation,” De Werd emphasized. Responding, Ali-Ibrahim explained that the body, which is an arm of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport (CILT), was set up to promote the status of women in logistics and transport, and to bring together those who support talent and career development of women. She added that the group also provides support network and mentoring opportunities for women in the transport and logistics sector, saying: “Our vision is to be the most sought after for advocacy, professionalism and empowerment of women in supply chain, logistics and transport. “We are committed to promoting the status of women in logistics and transport, to bring together those who support talent and career development of women and to provide a support network and mentoring opportunities for women in the sector,” she said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .