Nigeria’s vice president Yemi Osinbajo said the government is engaging traditional rulers on modalities to employ in improving security in the country. The ongoing consultations with the traditional leaders was disclosed in a statement by the Nigerian government. “Determined to develop an reinforce effective strategies towards addressing security concerns around the country, FG has begun a series of consultations with a number of leading traditional rulers with the aim of securing the peace and effective maintenance of law and order,” the government said in a statement. The vice president, in conjunction, with the state governments is expected to “work to significantly improve security in local communities while rearranging the security architecture nationwide.” Osinbajo has had separate meetings with the Akarigbo of Remoland, the Awujale of Ijebuland and Ogun State governor Dapo Abiodun. Speaking with journalists after the meeting with Awujale, the Vice President noted that the consultations would be done with traditional rulers across the country to ensure peace and security in their communities. “As you know, there are many significant concerns all over the country; and of course there are concerns also in the S/West,” Osinbajo said. “of course, you know that the Kabiyesi is not just the traditional ruler, but also a very important part of the government.” Osinbajo said the meeting was to ensure that the government and traditional rulers are fully conscious of happenings around and to ensure that peace and security reigns across the country. Osinbajo, who foresees a few difficulties in the outcome of the consultations, said he is confident that “God helping us, working together as a nation, we will be able to overcome all our problems and set our country on the path of peace and prosperity.” The Federal Government also said it has taken significant steps to improve security in collaboration with the state governments. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .