 Manchester City’s Belgian captain Vincent Kompany (C) lifts the winner’s trophy as the players celebrate victory after the English FA Cup final football match between Manchester City and Watford at Wembley Stadium in London, on May 18, 2019. – Manchester City beat Watford 6-0 at Wembley to claim the FA Cup. (Photo by Daniel LEAL-OLIVAS / AFP) /  The treble winners were due to travel to Shanghai ahead of the Premier League Asia Trophy on Saturday but their departure was twice put back due to an administrative issue involving travel agent Thomas Cook Sport. The delays embarrassingly meant City were absent as organisers opened with the exhibition event at a press conference on Monday that was due to feature manager Pep Guardiola and a player. City was instead belatedly preparing to get their 5,600-mile (9,000-kilometre) journey underway. A Thomas Cook Sports spokesman said: “Due to an administrative error with third parties, Manchester City’s flight with Aeronexus was delayed by two days. We have resolved this issue and the team are due to depart today at 11:00 am (1000 GMT).” The media conference went ahead with Wolves manager Nuno Espirito Santo and defender Ryan Bennett fielding questions. Newcastle and West Ham, the other two teams involved, were due to speak to media on Tuesday. Premier League communications manager David Antill said: “Manchester City have experienced administrative issues with their travel to China but these are being addressed and they will not affect their participation in the Premier League Asia Trophy. We look forward to welcoming them in China very soon.” City will now have little time to acclimatise to the heat and humidity of China, and overcome jet lag, ahead of their opening game against West Ham in Nanjing on Wednesday. They will then play in the final or third-place play-off against Wolves or Newcastle in Shanghai on Saturday before moving on to play friendlies in Hong Kong and Japan. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .