 Petroleum Equalisation Fund (PEF)  He explained that the allegations levelled against him were a backlash as a result of a petition filed against him by some members of staff who were affected in the outcome of disciplinary actions meted to them by a committee he chaired.
  
He added that the disciplinary actions taken, which included termination of appointments and demotion of some of the affected staff were sanctioned by PEF Management Board, having followed due process.
  
Citing other abuses of office, Suraju noted that against the objectives of the Presidential Committee on the North East Initiative (PCNI), to alleviate the sufferings of Nigerians in the Northeast, politics have crawled in, with the funds being manipulated to feather personal interests.
  
“We shall continue to monitor developments through media reports and intelligence gathering. Any attempt by the government or its official to influence, frustrate or terminate investigation will be further exposed and ultimately resisted by the people,” he added.
 
The Public Service Rules, which guide the conduct of public officers in Nigeria states that while these officers are not prohibited from holding shares in both public and private companies, “they must not be Directors in private companies.” Also, Section four (030424) further states: “(b) A public Officer, whenever required to do so by his/her Permanent Secretary/Head of Extra-Ministerial Office, shall disclose within three working days, in confidence, full information about any investments held by him/her or his/her immediate family whether held in their own names or the names of other persons or otherwise.” In subsection 030425, it adds that, “in accordance with the provisions of the Regulated and other Professions Private Practice Prohibition Act, (Cap.390) Part II, no officer shall engage in private practice. However, exemptions shall be granted to private Medical Practitioners and Law Lecturers in the Universities.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .