In recent times, the air conditioner (AC) has moved from being a luxury to becoming a necessity for many of us in our daily lives. From our offices to our cars and every room in our house, we are probably always in AC indoors. However, with so much exposure to AC, there has been a prolonged debate as to whether the AC has an adverse effect on the body. The answer to this is YES! According to the International Journal of Epidemiology, workers in air-conditioned office buildings reported higher rates of illness than those in buildings with natural ventilation. With this knowledge in mind, we have listed some health risks that constant and prolonged exposure to AC can have on your body. Research shows that people who work in over-air-conditioned environments may experience chronic headaches and fatigue. Those who work in buildings which are constantly being pumped full of cool air may also experience constant mucous membrane irritation and breathing difficulties. This leaves you more vulnerable to contracting colds, the flu and other illnesses. Your AC can come in handy on a really hot day but it is also the worst offender for circulating germs and micro-organisms that cause breathing problems. According to research conducted at Louisiana State Medical Center, eight types of mould live inside 22 out of 25 cars tested. Not only that, staying in the AC for a prolonged period can cause respiratory problems in nose, throat and eyes. ACs are known to circulate air-borne diseases such as Legionairre’s Disease, a potentially fatal infectious disease that produces high fever and pneumonia. It also helps with the circulation of rhinitis, a condition which causes inflammation of the mucous membrane of the nose. You are more likely to get dehydrated in a room with AC as compared to other rooms. The AC sucks humidity from the room leaving you dehydrated and with the need to drink water. Dehydration from AC can cause headaches and migraines. Sudden exposure to heat or the sun after prolonged exposure to AC may cause a headache. Also in cases of AC rooms which are not maintained properly, you are more prone to headaches and migraines. AC exposure causes dry and itchy skin and eyes. People with dry eyes symptoms are advised not to stay for too long in AC because it worsens things while excessive exposure to AC along with sun exposure can make the skin dry and itchy. Central air conditioning systems are known to enhance the effects the illness that you may already be suffering from. AC is notorious for increasing the symptoms of low blood pressure, arthritis, and neuritis, making pain management more difficult for those adamant on using their central air.