Multiple Grammy award-winning songstress, Taylor Swift has taken to social media to express outrage after she learned that her master recordings have now been sold to talent manager, Scooter Braun. The sale which was announced yesterday June 30 revealed that Big Machine Label Group (Swift’s former label), the owner of the master recordings from her 2006 debut album to her 2017 album was sold to Scooter’s Ithaca Holdings in a $300 million (N108,534,000,000) deal. The sale grants Braun ownership of her music catalog. Obviously displeased by the move, Swift disclosed in her post that she felt she had been ripped off and she took to social media to call out Braun. In her Tumblr post, she wrote, “For years I asked, pleaded for a chance to own my work. Instead, I was given an opportunity to sign back up to Big Machine Records and ‘earn’ one album back at a time, one for every new one I turned in. I walked away because I knew once I signed that contract; Scott Borchetta would sell the label, thereby selling me and my future. I had to make the excruciating choice to leave behind my past. Music I wrote on my bedroom floor and videos I dreamed up and paid for from the money I earned playing in bars, then clubs, then arenas, then stadiums. Some fun facts about today’s news: I learned about Scooter Braun’s purchase of my masters as it was announced to the world. All I could think about was the incessant, manipulative bullying I’ve received at his hands for years.” She continued to talk about the bullying she received from him over the years. She wrote: “Like when Kim Kardashian orchestrated an illegally recorded snippet of a phone call to be leaked and then Scooter got his two clients together to bully me online about it. (See photo) Or when his client, Kanye West, organized a revenge porn music video, which strips my body naked. Now Scooter has stripped me of my life’s work that I wasn’t given an opportunity to buy. Essentially, my musical legacy is about to lie in the hands of someone who tried to dismantle it.” According to Swift, when she left her masters in the hands of Scott Borchetta, the former owner of the label, she knew that he would one day sell them. However, she never thought it would be sold to Scooter. “This is my worst case scenario. This is what happens when you sign a deal at fifteen to someone for whom the term ‘loyalty’ is clearly just a contractual concept. And when that man says ‘Music has value’, he means its value is beholden to men who had no part in creating it. When I left my masters in Scott’s hands, I made peace with the fact that eventually he would sell them. Never in my worst nightmares did I imagine the buyer would be Scooter. Any time Scott Borchetta has heard the words ‘Scooter Braun’ escape my lips, it was when I was either crying or trying not to. He knew what he was doing; they both did. Controlling a woman who didn’t want to be associated with them. In perpetuity. That means forever. Thankfully, I am now signed to a label that believes I should own anything I create. Thankfully, I left my past in Scott’s hands and not my future. And hopefully, young artists or kids with musical dreams will read this and learn about how to better protect themselves in a negotiation. You deserve to own the art you make. I will always be proud of my past work. But for a healthier option, Lover will be out August 23. Sad and grossed out, .” Weighing in on the issue, Bieber took to Instagram to give his two cents on the matter and in his post, he caution Swift for calling out Braun. Sharing a photo of Braun and rapper, Kanye West, Bieber captioned it, “Taylor Swift, what’s up.” Justin Bieber weighed in on the incident between Taylor Swift and talent manager, Scooter Braun. Firstly, Justin apologised to Taylor for a post he made earlier taking sides with Scooter Braun and Kanye. He then went on to criticize Taylor for coming for Scooter Braun. In the photo shared by Bieber, Scooter’s face was circled and written on it were the words, ” This is Scooter Braun, bullying me on social media when I was at my lowest point. He’s about to own all the music I’ve ever made.” Bieber later had a change of heart because he took down the post aimed at mocking Swift and apologised to her saying that Braun has always had her back and both he (Bieber) and Braun love her. Sharing an old photo of himself and Taylor, he wrote: “Hey Taylor. First of all, I would like to apologize for posting that hurtful Instagram post, at the time i thought it was funny but looking back it was distasteful and insensitive.. I have to be honest though it was my caption and post that I screenshotted of scooter and Kanye that said “Taylor swift what up” he didn’t have anything to do with it and it wasn’t even a part of the conversation in all actuality he was the person who told me not to joke like that.. Scooter has had your back since the days you graciously let me open up for you.! As the years have passed we haven’t crossed paths and gotten to communicate our differences, hurts or frustrations. So for you to take it to social media and get people to hate on Scooter isn’t fair. What were you trying to accomplish by posting that blog? seems to me like it was to get sympathy u also knew that in posting that your fans would go and bully scooter. Anyway, One thing I know is both Scooter and I love you. I feel like the only way to resolve conflict is through communication. So banter back and forth online I don’t believe solves anything. I’m sure Scooter and I would love to talk to you and resolve any conflict, pain or any feelings that need to be addressed. Neither scooter or I have anything negative to say about you we truly want the best for you. I usually don’t rebuttal things like this but when you try and deface someone I loves character that’s crossing a line…” 