Controversy is trailing the whereabouts of 24-year-old Gbemisola Alabi, said to have disappeared during her routine road walk on Sunday in Ajah area of Lagos State. Alabi, according to her family, was said to have been abducted while jogging around Monastery Road, near Novare Mall in Shongotedo, Ajah but the police said they were investigating a case of missing person since nothing points to kidnapping. According to a viral social media message yesterday, the family called on Nigerians to assist with useful information on her whereabouts, while also appealing for prayers. The message read: “Dear friends and Nigerians, the above photo is of our beloved daughter, sister, wife and mother – Gbemisola Alabi. She was kidnapped around Monastery road near Novare mall – Shoprite Shongotedo Ajah yesterday (28th July) while she went jogging. We need your help to find her. Please help share her photo on all your social media handles, put a call through to people you feel can help us. Call the Ajah police command if you have any information or call Mr. Adebayo 0802 999 8831 representing the family.” Efforts to get Mr. Adebayo for further details failed at the time of filing this report. However, a source disclosed that the family has accused Alabi’s landlady and son of being responsible for her kidnap because of some issues between them. It was alleged that the unnamed landlady and her son had threatened to deal with Alabi following a disagreement that ensued between them. But the police said it would be wrong to conclude it was a case of kidnapping, insisting the case currently before them was that of a missing person. Spokesman of the police, Bala Elkana, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) said the report at the station indicated disappearance, adding that from preliminary findings, the woman went jogging without her phone, and no one had contacted the family to demand ransom.He said: “It would be wrong to say she was kidnapped. At the moment, no one has come forward to say they have her in their custody nor made demands to that effect. She left the house to jog, which is her normal routine but this time around, she didn’t come back. “No one knows for sure what happened to her. It is true the family said they were suspecting the landlady and her son and we have invited them. Investigation is ongoing to unravel what happened to her and where she is.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .