Photo/Twitter/HQNigerianArmy Troops of 159 Task Force Battalion along Road Gubio-Damasak yesterday disclosed they intercepted the Islamic States of West Africa Province (ISWAP) logistics network and arrested two Toyota Hilux vans conveying its illegal items. This follows its ongoing counter-insurgency operations in the Northeast. During the operation, the troops searched the vehicles and found intoxicants, alcohol drinks in several plastic containers and a large quantity of sex enhancing drugs, among others. A statement issued in Abuja by spokesman, Office of the National Security Adviser (ONSA), Danjuma Reuben, disclosed that the items were concealed in 16 cartoons marked: Honey Well Macaroni to Beat Security Checks. Reuben said the drivers of the vehicles disclosed that they were directed to deliver the items at Gudumbali village, believed to be exchange point for illicit goods where they would be conveyed to ISWAP leadership in Lake Chad. He added that the interception of the illicit drugs, particularly the sex enhancing drugs, revealed the high level of sexual abuse perpetrated by the ISWAP against vulnerable women and girls. Reuben pointed out that effort of the troops has also exposed ISWAP’s propaganda in which the group claims to practise genuine Islam, but actually contradicts Islamic jurisprudence to legalise the use of intoxicants. He said ISWAP, which remains faceless with no defined frontier had targeted civilian population, humanitarian workers and business interests in the Northeast region, stressing that their foreign affiliates are driven by violent and extremist ideology. “ISWAP is committing crimes against humanity, including violence to life and persons, outrages on personal dignity, as well as humiliating and degrading treatment, rape, sexual slavery, forced pregnancy and other acts of sexual violence,” he said. Reuben, however, assured members of the public that the Nigerian security forces would continue to intensify efforts in intelligence gathering to secure all captives, including girls and women who are still in terrorists’ custody in the country. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .