Controversial TV host, Wendy Williams has a lot to say about everyone and everything but this time she is talking about herself as she made an appearance on SiriusXM’s The Karen Hunter Show with host Karen Hunter at SiriusXM studios. Williams who opened up about a number of issues talked about her alleged feud with reality Tv star, Blac Chyna‘s mum Tokyo Toni, her need to have a sober house to feel safe as well as her relationship with her ex-husband, Kevin Hunter. Wendy Williams | Photo – Astrid Stawiarz-Getty Images for SiriusXM.jpg Talking about her recent separation from Hunter whom she was married to for 21 years, Williams got emotional. Karen asked whether she will change her name on credit card and bank accounts, Williams got choked up and said: “My name is Wendy Hunter. That’s my son’s name. You can’t take away twenty…don’t make me cry… Next. “I’m happy, I’m healthy…I’m at peace with the world and everyone around…I’m going through a situation in my family.” “Is there a chance…” Karen began to ask. “No! Don’t ask. Girl. No. Don’t ask. I know what you’re saying…but my family’s good, and we’ll always be family.” Watch below:  Despite the difficult situation, Williams is already back on her dating game. The TV host shared on her show in early July that she is dating a doctor in his 50s. “Well, I’m not on the market anymore,” she said. “I don’t know how I’m doing! I’m not in love, but there’s somebody that I’m crazy about.” “It helps that he’s a doctor,” she continued. “I am not going to say one more word. You’re not going to blow this for me. But he’s been married, his kids are in their 20s. And yes, he’s black. I know you’re wondering.” Wendy Williams | Photo – Astrid Stawiarz-Getty Images Meanwhile, Williams was notably more excited when she appeared on her own daytime talk show, The Wendy Williams Show, on Wednesday, where she revealed that she’s partnered with Lifetime to executive produce a biopic based on her life. The project, which will be shepherded by famed film producer Will Packer, is set to start production in Toronto in the fall, and will premiere on Lifetime in 2020. Wendy said that the cast has not yet been set, but revealed that Boomerang writer Leigh Davenport has been tapped to pen the screenplay. The two-hour biopic will also be accompanied by a two-hour documentary on Williams, which will both air the same night. “It’s like a Wendy night on Lifetime!” Williams declared.