 [FILES] Gov. Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa  Swelling the number was the former attorney general and commissioner for justice, Anthony George-Ikoli, who picked his nomination form yesterday. The barrister declared that his administration would take advantage of the state’s comparative advantage in deep sea resources to revamp its economy, if given the opportunity. He promised to prioritise science and technology, even as he stressed the importance of recruiting well-trained teachers in the state. He said, “My administration will work tirelessly to exploit areas where our state has a clear competitive advantage in agriculture and aquaculture. It is my belief that we can earn substantial income from industrial seafood and cash crop processing.” “Educational revolution through a total overhaul of formal instruction methodologies with special emphasis on Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) would mark the beginning of new direction aimed at excellence in manpower training. “We must make ready for the next generation of Bayelsans, for the challenges of the future will be a lot more daunting than the inconveniences of the present. We can no longer stay aloof, feeling sorry for ourselves or reminisce about a past that once was. The time for strong determined action is now. Under my watch, Bayelsa will take the lead in all the current educational metrics and set a benchmark for learning in the region.” George-Ikoli also promised to save for the rainy day through the creation of a wealth fund. “My administration will religiously set aside funds into a Bayelsa Sovereign Fund with which we will undertake a Future Saving Fund and Project Guarantee Fund, from where we will issue matching guarantees for the many large-scale infrastructure projects we will undertake under a strategic Public Private Partnership (PPP) programme. “We can grow a new economy and expand our Gross Domestic Product (GDP) up to five times its current size. By developing 12 of Bayelsa’s most picturesque beaches, we can create autonomous economic zones that can develop the communities at the grassroots into power houses of economic growth.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .