 Managing Director of Guaranty Trust Bank Plc, Segun Agbaje  Speaking at a conference for General Counsel (GC) & senior in House Lawyers organized by Nigerian Bar Association Section on Business Law and ILFA in Lagos recently, he noted that the decisions or advice of GCs are very important†to the growth of an organization. With the theme: Gaining perspective: Shaping the role of African GC, he added that GCs must be prepared to take responsibility for their actions. He said counsel must not only be familiar with law related issues but must be familiar with other sectors like the essential technology such as Artificial Intelligence, robotics and block chain. He noted that their employers would lose confidence in them if they perform below their expectation. Chairman 13th NBA-SBL Conference Planning Committee Dr Adeoye Adefulu, said: ìWe organize business conference annually and†we have decided to add to†this year conference issues affecting General Counsel and in house lawyers. We have a large community of in house counsels. Most of them work in different sectors and we felt it is good to have them so that they can network and learn from one another and also share their experiences. Cynthia Lareine, Executive Director ILFA/ CEO, Lareine Gold Consulting noted that the importance of the theme is around the increasing problems of African companies in international business and finance, adding that counsels need to learn how they can thrive in their roles.On her part, Adeola Adebonojo, Business Mentor, Cherie Blair Foundation said the law is very complicated. According to her, when you are put in a position to advice†the companies and you know the decision you make is going to have an impact on the company, you need someone that you respect in your profession to advise to you. The role of the mentor is not only for ones profession but also how to operate in the work environment because working†in companies have challenges so you need someone that you respect to guide†you,î she said.Speaking on the opening plenary session on the topic: ìLessons in†Leadership: if I knew then what I know nowî, she said†senior lawyers must advise junior lawyers that when they fail, they must not lose hope but get up and move forward. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .