Funke Opeke. Photo CIO East Africa • To increase state’s fibre coverage to 27000km West Africa’s technology firm, MainOne, said it plans to invest up to N25 billion in fibre optic infrastructure by adding 2,000km to the existing 700km facilities in the new developmental phase of Lagos State. MainOne, which announced this in Lagos, yesterday, said this move is part of its “Digital Lagos: Broadband for All” campaign initiative, targeted at enabling Lagos’ digital transformation through the deployment of ubiquitous broadband infrastructure across the state. Addressing journalists, Chief Executive Officer, MainOne, Funke Opeke, said the company is keen to collaborate with the Lagos State Government, and all other relevant stakeholders to build a digital state. This will enable residents from all walks of life realise the benefits of broad, sustainable economic growth, modernised education, health and other services delivery, and improved quality of life. “MainOne is pleased to have the opportunity to present its plan for Digital Lagos, a proven path to ubiquitous broadband connectivity. This plan will involve the investment by MainOne of over N25 billion over the next two-three years, to develop critical fibre optic infrastructure to enable broadband services across Lagos state,” she stated. Opeke, who said the initiative, is part of the project expected to come out of the InfraCo licence, the firm got in 2015, disclosed that MainOne has pioneered investments in critical Internet-enabling infrastructure across West Africa, Nigeria, and Lagos.She said to date, the firm has invested over N120 billion funded by leading African banks, and has proven its capabilities in expanding and densifying localised fibre networks in neighbouring Ogun and Edo states by deploying almost 1000kms of fibre in partnership with Facebook to expand broadband access and connect government institutions and other areas of interest. Consultant to the Project, Judah Levine, Chief Executive Officer, Hipconsult, said MainOne’s Digital Lagos Plan will deploy world-class, open-access fibre optic networks through all local government Aaeas and business districts in the state, including fast-growing population centres such as Alimosho, Ajeromi, Ifelodun, Kosofe and Ikorodu. Levine noted that the resulting network would provide connectivity to critical state institutions, and can easily be extended to other locations, including 94 per cent of 1,259 health centres; 97 per cent of 3,046 known schools and universities, and a host of others.He noted that through the proposed investment, MainOne will enable the digitisation of Lagos, accelerate job creation and economic growth, and support the future of the state as a 21st century mega-city.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .