YBNL boss and indigenous rapper Olamide has issued a statement on why he unfollowed music artiste Lyta and also allowed him to exit his record label. Read the full statement below. 1. LYTA CLAIMS HE HAS SOMEONE WHO WANTS TO SIGN HIM
Olamide said Lyta told him he has someone who wants to sign him and requested he wants to leave and he gave him his blessings. Olamide said even though he knows Lyta was lying, he still wished him well regardless and then Lyta goes about saying different Negative things about him. 2. LABEL CALENDAR/MUSIC RELEASE PLAN
Every label with 2 or more artistes has a Calendar that they follow in order to push the various artists for equality sake and it seems Lyta was not cool with that. According to Baddo, if one keeps pushing just one artist only, how would the label and every artiste sign under it grow? At least, Lyta was popping in 2018 with 2 singles “Time” and “Self Made” with videos and now it’s another person’s turn to get that attention and Lyta must have been pissed, hence decided to leave not remembering other artistes too waited patiently he was the one getting the whole attention last year. 3. LYTA MIGHT BE JEALOUS OF FIREBOY’s SUCCESS LATELY
This is a killer point and as a blogger, you don’t have to say everything before we pick our point. Fireboy‘s massive success might have triggered something inside of Lyta. Lyta is talented no doubt but the boy might think the Label is not giving him the privilege to drop songs anytime he feels like, song that can actually take him places and on top of his craft. At least, others didn’t die when Lyta was popping and going places in 2018 but it seems he doesn’t want others to get ahead of him. Lyta’s decision to leave must have been because of this reason. 4. INSTAGRAM UNFOLLOW ISSUE
I don’t want Negative vibes around me or on my Page and I decided to unfollow and let peace reign, the YBNL boss said. In his word, Baddo said, “If you know me too well, you will know I don’t want Negative energy or bad vibes around me“. Bad energy or pity face affects me badly and I can’t help but scrutinize my page to avoid any issue. From our Investigation, Olamide unfollowed so many people and even changed some settings on his Instagram page – You can check to confirm. 5. ONLY FIREBOY HAS CONTRACT IN YBNL
Olamide confirmed only Fireboy has a contract with YBNL, as he’s just helping others so they can have a smooth ride in the highly competitive music industry.