Globacom service center. Photo/Nairametrics The Federal University of Technology, Akure (FUTA), and the University of Port Harcourt (Uniport), have become the latest schools to benefit from the free smartphones and data packages being presented to tertiary institutions by telecommunications operator, Globacom, and global ICT solutions provider, Huawei. Five outstanding students selected from each of the two schools as well as the managements of both institutions were within the week presented with the packages by officials of the companies. This is in continuation of the scheme in which a total of 150 brilliant students with the highest CGPA from 30 institutions will receive Huawei smartphones and Glo 4G data package, while the schools receive Glo 4G routers. The FUTA students who got their packages yesterday were Omolara Bakare; Okunoye Olayinka, Lawal Adeshile; Adebiyi Emmanuel; Phillip Onochiemume; and Ogundeji Emmanuel, while their UniPort counterparts included Esther, Juliet Onwuka, Glory Chilaka, Munachiso Wodi, and Joshua Tom. This comes as Globacom added about 950,000 new customers in March 2019, thereby consolidating its reputation as Nigeria’s most loved data service provider, the network providers said in a statement, yesterday. The Vice Chancellor of the Federal University of Technology, Akure, Professor Joseph Adeola Fuwape, who received the routers, thanked Globacom for the gesture, and expressed optimism that it would boost research and learning in the school. This is just as the Dean, Students Affairs, UniPort, Dr. Otu Ekpeyong, who received the routers on behalf of the Vice Chancellor, acknowledged the wonderful relationship the institution has with Glo. This is validated in the latest figures released by Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) on its website, which credited Globacom with gaining the most new internet users with 950,115 customers. The gain took its internet subscription in March to 28,436,386 from 27,486,271 recorded in February, 2019. The NCC figures also showed that MTN and Airtel recorded gains in March. Airtel added 351,657 new internet users in the month under review, while MTN recorded a marginal increase of 13,552 subscribers. Conversely, 9mobile continued to record losses in its internet subscriber base as it lost 166,542 users in March.
NCC’s data showed that overall internet users in Nigeria increased to 115,938,225 in March from 114,725,357 recorded in February. This indicates an increase of 1,212,868 new subscribers in one month, with Globacom recording over 78% of the new subscribers. Subscribers believe that the manifest preference for Globacom by new internet subscribers is the result of the network’s continued upgrade in its data services. The company has the widest 4G LTE coverage in Nigeria, which ensures more reliable and faster internet usage experience, while also having the most eye-catching data plans in the market, with attractive packages for both high and low data users. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .