Let’s face it, many of us are so addicted to our smartphones that we can barely let it be for a second. However, there are some phone habits we have that affect the longevity of our device’s battery and considering a long-lasting battery life is something we all look out for in our smartphones, we need to change some habits. On average, our smartphone battery lasts about 7-8 hours and the underlisted tips can help you increase your battery’s life. Depending on your phone usage, 80% is enough to get you through a day because crossing the 80% mark can make your battery to overheat, thereby affecting battery’s life. Constantly plugging your phone to charge is not ideal, at least let your phone battery to discharge to around 20% before plugging it in. Studies have claimed that unnecessary and frequent recharges shorten the lifespan of the battery. Due forgetfulness, carelessness or a busy schedule, we sometimes replace the original charger of our phone with duplicates and this action affects battery performance. Before using a replacement charger, check its output voltage (V) and current (Ampere). We all want our phones to get charged as quickly as possible but fast chargers might not be the best option for your battery’s overall health. Fast chargers damage your battery in the long run because it uses higher voltage that leads to high temperature. Resist the temptation to leave your phone plugged overnight because it affects battery longevity also makes your smartphone overheat. There are many third party apps out there that claim to increase the battery life of Androids but the truth is they only increase the load on the smartphone and forces the device to use more battery power. phones tend to get slightly warm during charging and having a phone case on can slow down heat dissipation so try and flip your phone over while charging. If you happen to be a gamer, you may want to slow down with gaming on your smartphone because it drains your battery. Moreso, gaming while charging causes overheating issues. 