 Prof. Sola Aderounmu  He noted that presently, compliance to the orders are not being implemented 100 percent, stating that government should ensure that it supports ailing local IT Firms to scale up in order to stop mass exodus of exceptionally brilliant indigenous ICT skills to other countries who will sell the same skills back to Nigeria at exorbitant rates and attendant capital flight. Prof Aderounmu made this call on Tuesday during a press conference to announce the 14th International Conference of the Nigeria Computer Society (NCS) billed to hold between 16th and 19th of July, 2019, at the International Conference Centre, Gombe. He emphasized that support for local content in public procurement by the Federal Government will definitely contribute in the creation of more jobs for our present and youthful population. He decried the disturbing high level of disregard for contracts entered into with indigenous firms compared with the “high level of respect” accorded to foreign counterparts by the government.Using REMITA as an example, the NCS President urged federal government to lead by example by ensuring that it comply with its obligation with regard to the services rendered to her through REMITA software. He bemoaned them for their inability to hold its part of the agreement entered with SystemSpecs despite the services rendered to her through REMITA software.He implored on them to pay SystemSpecs the total cost of all their services rendered to date. Prof Aderounmu noted that the ICT Roadmap of the Federal Government could only achieve its desired goals, when local IT Firms are appreciated and respected for their innovation, intellectual property and pace setting accomplishments.Giving further insight on how government could solve the unemployment crisis in Nigeria, Prof Aderounmu said that IT projects in the country could resolve the unemployment crisis if properly executed. He noted that the National Identity Management System (NIMS) project as one of the projects that could address the lingering unemployment crisis if backed with regulatory innovations that will ensure economic growth. He commended the current administration for the integration of the National Identity Number (NIN) into the issuance and renewal of International Passports by the Nigeria Immigration Service, stressing that such regulatory innovations will definitely result in economic growth.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .