 Liverpool’s Dutch midfielder Georginio Wijnaldum (L) celebrates with Liverpool’s English midfielder Jordan Henderson after scoring their third goal during the UEFA Champions league semi-final second leg football match between Liverpool and Barcelona at Anfield in Liverpool, north west England on May 7, 2019. (Photo by Paul ELLIS / AFP)  But yesterday was a different kettle of fish, as there was no twist in the tale at the Amex Stadium in Brighton, where Manchester City successfully defended their Premier League title with an emphatic 4-1 win over Chris Houghton’s side. With the victory, Pep Guardiola’s team  became the first side in a decade to win the league back to back, a feat last achieved by the more illustrious Manchester United. Several kilometres away in  Anfield, Liverpool, where  Jurgen Klopp’s boys  needed an almost impossible favour from Brighton to stand any chance of wrestling the trophy off City’s hands, that was simply mission impossible as Vincent Kompany and the rest of the boys held on firmly and ensured they took the trophy back to Manchester.  Thus, Liverpool, who are in the Champions League final, could only exert their influence on their own backyard, as they too made it another day in the office with a 2-0 win over visiting Wolves. Although Klopp knew their fate were no longer in their hands going to the final 90 minutes of the season, it was  a sort of bittersweet experience for the German, who in his post match comment said being second, especially with just a point behind the winners, is definitely a good place to be, however, ‘not exactly what I want.’ Tottenham, meanwhile,  caused a few nervy moments for their supporters, but they too did what they needed to do, which was just a draw. The  2-2 result that the Champions League finalist managed to get at home to Everton was enough to make Arsenal’s 3-1 away victory over Burnley irrelevant. Chelsea, whose Champions League status for next season was already guaranteed before yesterday’s finale, also managed a draw at Leicester. With that, two London clubs will be in next season’s Champions League. For Liverpool, meanwhile, pushing City all the way to the wire may be consolatory, but to earn a ‘congratulations, Liverpool,’ from Guardiola means they did win some hearts and recognition, even if not the trophy they desperately wanted.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .