 GTBank  By his assessment, Managing Director, Highcap Securities, Imafidon Adonri, said the aggregate earnings declined due to the uncertainties that trailed build up to the general elections.Besides, he said pervasive insecurity nationwide and poor business environment also affected banks’ top line adversely. “The banking sector performed well in 2018. The leaders – Zenith Bank and GTBank improved on their dividend payment. However, two weak banks, Diamond and Skye were rescued from outright failure.” He continued: “Apart from these two failed banks and Union Bank of Nigeria, others paid dividend. Generally, the banking sector was healthy and contributed immensely to financial stability. “However, most of their income was concentrated on public securities. Insecurity in several parts of the country adversely affected them. As in the past, banks continued to dominate the economic landscape in 2018,” he added.
 
Similarly, cumulative pre-tax profit among the top five banks was N720 billion in 2018, higher than the N606.1 billion achieved in 2017. A further breakdown put Zenith Bank at the top with N231 billion, GTB N215 billion, UBA N106.7 billion, Access Bank N103 billion, and FBN Holdings with N65.2 billion followed respectively.
 
For post-tax, the top five banks posted a total of N610 billion for the 2018 financial year. Again, Zenith Bank led the pack with N193 billion; GTB with N184 billion; Access Bank N94.9 billion; UBA N78.6 billion, and FBN Holdings N59.7 billion. Given the overall scenario, a stockbroker with Delloit Securities Limited, Tunde Oyediran, said the performance of many banks was not that encouraging in 2018, which is a reflection of the state of the economy.
 
“This showed in their results. Their profit margin was not high as usual. The cheap Treasury Bills investment they engage in is no longer yielding high returns. They need to go back to their conventional business of lending and other ancillary businesses that can improve their bottom-line greatly. Shareholders are not interested in hearing stories, they need to perform and declare good dividend.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .