The special assistant to the General Overseer (G.O) on Christian Social Responsibility (CSR), Pastor Idowu Iluyomade flanked by Commissioner of Police, Animal Branch (FAB), Force Headquarters, Abuja, Aishatu Abubakar and Commissioner of Police in chage of finance and administration, DCP Oqua Etim during the commissioning of Nigerian police Canine service. Photo: Eniola Daniel The Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Lagos Province 47, yesterday handed over a renovated K9 Unit, Dog Section of the Force Animal Branch in Ikeja to the police. The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, CP Zubairu Muazu, who was represented by the Deputy Commissioner of Police in Charge of Finance and Administration, DCP Oqua Etim, commended RCCG for the gesture, adding that the intervention would help boost crime prevention in the state. “Police Canine section was established in 1963 Obalende, Lagos with six dogs and six handlers. The function of K9 section is to prevent and detect crime through the use of dogs. Police dogs are used for crowd control, perimeter surveillance and condoning. Sniffer dogs help in detecting illicit drugs like cocaine, heroin, hemps, explosives, arms and concealed dead bodies. They equally help in tracking suspects, search and rescue operations, searching for weapons and recovery of loss or stolen property. Police dogs can perform the function of 10 armed officers. “We thank the church for renovating the kennel and dilapidated K9 building, donating a borehole and training facilities for the dogs. The church also brought a 5KVA generating set. These incentives are to facilitate the optimal utilization of the dogs in crime prevention, detection and apprehension of criminals,” he said. The Commissioner of Police, Animal Branch, CP Aishatu Abubakar, commended the church for the gesture, adding that it came at the right time. The pastor-in-charge of RCCG LP 47, Pastor Femi Obaweya, handed over the facility to the police. Pastor Idowu Iluyomade, Special Assistant to RCCG General Overseer, said it was part of the Christian Social Responsibility program of the church to contribute towards the development of the society. Iluyomade added that he expects that the gesture would boost the morale of officers at the K9, Dog section to give their best while they discharge their duties. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .