Speaker of the House of Representatives Yakubu Dogara Wednesday said the National Assembly under Bukola Saraki gave President Muhammadu Buhari led government all needed support to fast-track the implementation of his administration’s plans and policies. Dogara said this when he received the Euro Knowledge Award in recognition of his leadership which was conferred on him last month at the United Kingdom’s Parliament. “We have done exceptionally well. It is on record that this has been the most productive National Assembly ever, as well as unparalleled House in the history of the House of Representatives,” Dogara said. Nigeria’s 8th National Assembly led by Senate President Bukola Saraki has had a strained relationship with the executive with regards to passing spending plans. President Muhammadu Buhari, since 2015 of his election, has presented budgets for successive years in November and December to the National Assembly. The executive and legislature have blamed each other on who is responsible for the budget delays. Buhari had in March 2019 said he expected that national interests should be placed above personal interests by the leadership of the National Assembly. Dogara said he hoped the 9th National Assembly would be better. “We hope that those who are coming after us, those who will take over from us will do better and be able to rededicate themselves and to achieve the ideals they set out for themselves,” Dogara said. He stated that the 8th Assembly have cleaned up pending laws inherited from previous assemblies. He noted that it was wrong for anyone to think the National Assembly did not support Buhari enough especially in the ease of doing business in Nigeria. “For the Ease of Doing Business, anyone who thinks we have not supported Government enough in the bid to create a conducive business environment to attract better investment into Nigeria should check what we have done in the area of the ease of doing business in Nigeria.” The speaker, who is amongst other returning legislators, said the passage of the ease of doing business in Nigeria bill improved Nigeria on the global ranking of nations. He assured the executive government that “we (legislature) will continue to do our best in the interest of our country and of its people in whatever position we are.” Dogara dedicated the awards to all legislators in the 8th National Assembly for “moving the country forward.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .