Cyber secutity The Lagos State Government has introduced a cyber security toolkit for small business, a free online resource that small businesses can use to significantly reduce their cyber risk and curtail incidences of cybercrime. The toolkit, which is a joint effort between the State Ministry of Justice and the Global Cyber Alliance (GCA), is an international, cross-sector effort dedicated to eradicating cyber risk and improving the connected world, while the toolkit also provides real-world tools and clear directions for taking immediate action for reducing cyber risk at a time when the need for such resources has never been greater. Speaking at the launch of the toolkit, Mr. Adeniji Kazeem (SAN), Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, described the toolkit as a great asset to small businesses, saying that the development would go a long way to tackle the menace of cybercrimes. According to him, “The major driving force for the deployment of the cyber security toolkit for small businesses in Lagos State is its apparent potential to reduce cybercrime which in-turn has a significant impact on our collective gains as a Ministry that focuses on creating a crime free society. “The nature of cybercrime goes beyond national boundaries; hence, there is need for international initiative and concerted trans-border joint actions in fighting cybercrime and also providing bulwarks against its perpetration. “To further its cyber security efforts, the Lagos State Ministry of Justice joined GCA as a partner in support of its mission to eradicate global cyber risk. Small businesses are the lifeblood of a community and provide all manner of essential services and support to individuals, enterprise businesses and government. Even though a business may be small, when it comes to cybercrime the risks are great.” Kazeem added that the toolkit, which would be regularly updated with input from users, industry experts and public and private partners across the globe, was developed in partnership with Mastercard, while the Global Cyber Alliance also partnered with several additional organizations to create the GCA cyber security toolkit, including the Center for Internet Security, the Cyber Readiness Institute, the City of London and the City of New York. He said as a thriving State, which encourages inward investment and also supports indigenous Small Medium Enterprises (SMEs) which are vulnerable to cybercrime, the initiative was appropriate and timely to the State, assuring that government would further collaborate with relevant stakeholders to make deepen access to the toolkit. “The Lagos State Government will encourage and collaborate with relevant stakeholders in the business community and regulatory bodies to embrace this cybercrime toolkit for small business as a formidable initiative in fighting cybercrimes and related offences,” Kazeem said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .