A deployment of heavily armed soldiers is causing heavy traffic along the Nyanya axis of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) making it herculean for commuters to access the city centre. This is coming after the Nigerian Army recently alerted the Federal Government and Nigerians of an orchestrated plan by some groups and foreign interests to disrupt the May 29 handover and scuttle the democratic process. The Army in a statement by its Acting Director Public Relations, Colonel Sagir Musa said the “mischievous elements” had thought Nigeria would not have successful 2019 general elections but they were proved wrong. Hundreds of commuters who left their homes in the early hours of Wednesday met a brick wall on the road as starn looking soldiers have created checkpoints where car owners, Okada riders carrying passengers and those trekking are made to go through the many narrow checkpoints before being allowed to proceed to their different destinations in the city. For over three hours The Guardian along with other commuters going to the city centre from the axis were held in gridlock with many car owners forced to park their vehicles because of overheating. Meanwhile, sources say entrances leading into the Federal Capital City, Abuja from other areas of the city are also reportedly closed ahead of today’s inauguration of President Muhammadu Buhari Motorists and travellers intending to connect other parts of the country through Abuja are currently facing hard times from both Kubwa and Lugbe the entrant axis. Security agents have mounted road checks causing traffic gridlock which began as early as 6:00 am in most part of the city. Residents intending to move from one part of the city to another have also been held in the traffic for hours. Guests living on the outskirts of Abuja but also invited to the programme have been caught in the long traffic. Commuters frustrated in the traffic are packed by the roadsides waiting for when the situation will subside. The inauguration holding at the Eagle Square is expected to commence at 10:00 am. The Federal Government had announced today as a public holiday. President Buhari will be sworn-in alongside his vice, Professor Yemi Osinbajo by the acting Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) Ibrahim Tanko Mohammed. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .