 Ibrahim Magu, Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission  Speaking yesterday in Abuja after receiving an award for Outstanding Leadership in Public Service by the Euro Knowledge Group, Magu described corruption as the mother of all crimes. Asked why the commission was after Saraki again, he responded with a swift No! No! It is not personal. Saraki’s investigation is not different from other investigations we are doing in the country. “We do our home work very well, we conduct preliminary investigations for up to six months and we have investigated people for more than five years without them even knowing.” He argued that if Nigeria succeeds in tackling corruption, the country would be a great nation, adding: “Corruption is the mother of all crimes. It is a disaster. If we can get rid of corruption, we can move this country forward.” While appealing to all citizens to support the EFCC in its fight to protect future generations of Nigerians, stressing that until Nigerians come together and decide to fight corruption in every way, the country will not move forward. He bemoaned the increasing rate of violent crimes, especially kidnapping and insurgency, saying: “We cannot allow the country to be run down by criminals and looters. We must protect Nigeria as it belongs to all of us.” Magu also lamented the rate of kidnappings and insurgency, which he said, was taking over the country and making it ungovernable. “It is affecting Nigeria and Nigerians as a whole and that is why the EFCC is taking the fight against corruption seriously, especially as it is the root cause of all crimes in Nigeria. “Corruption is the root cause of restiveness. It is the proceeds of corruption that are used to fund crimes. So, corrupt persons are responsible for them, but if we come together collectively, we will see results,” Magu added. While presenting the award, Chairman of Foreign Investment Network (FIN), Yinka Fayomi said Magu was considered for the recognition due to improvement in the fight against graft since his inception as Acting Chairman of EFCC. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .