 Ondo  The development led to protest by FUTA students, who blocked the major Akure-Ilesa highway yesterday to prevent movement of vehicles. They also organised a long procession in honour of their departed colleague. The Guardian learnt that the accident happened on Tuesday evening, some 1,000 metres away from the gate of the university on Ilesha-Akure Road. According to eyewitnesses, the deceased, who was in Mathematics Department, was rushed immediately to the university health centre from where he was transferred to the State Hospital Akure due to the severity of his injuries. The sources disclosed that he was thereafter rushed to the Trauma Centre, Ondo in Ondo West LGA of the state, where he later died. The Students Union led a procession yesterday to mourn their departed colleague, terminating the peaceful procession at the university gate as the Vice Chancellor and Dean of Students Affairs addressed them. FUTA Deputy Director, Corporate Communication and Protocol, Mr. Adebanjo Adegbenro, said the institution received the news with shock and had notified the parents of the deceased of the tragic incident. Adegbenro commiserated with the family of the late student over the unfortunate incident and prayed that God would grant them the fortitude to bear the painful loss. The FUTA authorities also raised the alarm over increasing rate of motor accidents on FUTA axis of the Akure-Ilesa road. The university urged the Federal Road Safety Commission, (FRSC) Ondo State Command to intensify patrol on the route to prevent a recurrence of such incident. The Commissioner for Works, Taofeeq Abdulsalam, visited the scene of the incident and pledged that government would find a lasting solution to the recurring accident in the area. To address the systemic recklessness on the route, the Ondo State government also promised to start the immediate construction of speed breakers on the road. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .