The Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto on Friday matriculated 4,950 newly admitted students for the 2018/2019 academic session. The University’s Vice Chancellor, Prof. Abdullahi Zuru said the new students were admitted out of about 26,000 candidates who applied for the institution. He said the admissions were also out of 5,847 Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB) quota which showed that 84.66 per cent have been utilised. According to him, the university has 14 faculties, postgraduate school, school of medical laboratory sciences, school of matriculation studies, six research centres, central research laboratory and a number of academic support units. The VC noted that the National Universities Commission (NUC) has just completed resource verification to ascertain readiness for the university to establish Mass Communication programme. “At present 98 per cent of the university’s programmes are fully accredited by the NUC and other professional bodies as the university’s performance remain superlative.’’ He added that 7,280 per cent of the admissions were science based while 28.20 per cent were Arts and Humanities in compliance with Federal Government directives of giving priority to the sciences and science-related programmes. “This priority was in compliance with the Federal government’s directive on Science to Humanity students’ ratio of 60:40. ”It is also our response to the federal government’s desire for the country of rapid development through advances in science and technology,” he said. Zuru added that in the last 44 years, the university had pursued its objectives with sustained vigour. “This has resulted into outstanding positive outcomes and progressive academic activities as well as excellent performance,” he said. The Vice Chancellor called on the matriculated students to strictly adhere to the university’s rules and regulations. “This includes personal discipline, high moral standards and respect for constituted authorities,” he said. He enjoined students to shun all forms of extremism, violence and intolerance especially in ethnic, political and religious matters. Zuru urged them to be extra vigilant and security conscious as well as report any suspicious movement, persons and group to appropriate authorities in the university. He described the event as the 40th matriculation exercise since the establishment of the institution, saying it is unique to him because it is the last he would preside in the capacity of Vice Chancellor. He further urged students to be hard working as there are routine requirements for them to obtain the awards of the various course, noting that they should justify their parents’ investments on them. In his remark, the University’s Dean of Students Affairs, Prof. Aminu Mode congratulated the students for securing admission into the university. “UDUS is one of the most peaceful university in the country which is absent of all criminal cases, as such you are requested to maintain the tempo in the institution.” He urged them to remain focused in all their academic activities and to obey the university’s guidelines and laws. The Students Union Government President, Mr Faruku Barade called on the matriculating students to interact fully with the university communities in order to successfully achieve their objectives in the institution. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .