Bala Mohammed • I will right wrongs of my first tenure, says Ortom
• Niger, Kebbi govs to consolidate on achievements Governor Bala Mohammed, who was sworn in yesterday as the 16th governor of Bauchi State since its creation in 1976, has terminated last-minute appointments, promotions, transfers and contracts awarded from the day he won election two months ago. While taking oath of office administered by the acting Chief Justice, Rabi Umar, at the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa Stadium, Mohammed pledged to defend the people’s interest. In his 14-page speech, he declared the appointments and contracts “null and void”. But Benue State governor, Samuel Ortom, has described the second mandate given to him as an opportunity to correct the mistakes made in his first tenure, noting that lessons had been learnt. Ortom made the declaration yesterday shortly after his inauguration as governor for another four years. He called on Benue residents to support his administration by always paying their taxes as and when due, noting that their taxes would be used to develop the state. Meanwhile Governors Abubakar Bello of Niger State and Abubakar Bagudu of Kebbi have promised to, in the next four years, consolidate on the achievements of their first terms. Bello, who gave this assurance at his swearing-in for second term in Minna yesterday, said issues of agriculture, security and welfare of the civil servants would his priority in the next four years. He thanked the people of the state for the confidence reposed in his administration, adding: “I may have won the votes, but you won the election.” On his part, the Kebbi governor, who was sworn in by the chief justice of the state, Muktahr Jega, at the Presidential Lodge, Birnin-Kebbi, said his second term would focus on the security challenges prevailing some parts of the state. Delivering his inaugural speech, the governor promised to improve the economy, agriculture, education and infrastructure. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .