 [FILE PHOTO] Rochas Okorocha  They alleged lack of social amenities such as good road, potable water, electricity and other infrastructure in their area. The indigenes told The Guardian yesterday in Owerri that the governor’s eight-year stewardship never benefitted them. According to Bonny Ebili, Nnenna Aladum and others, their area still lacked the basic things of life despite having their own at the helm of affairs in the state. Ebili said:  “We have nothing to boast of (despite) having the governor as our brother. His eight years in office for us are a shame and highly regrettable.” Also, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) stakeholders in the region corroborated the claim. During a press conference at the state party secretariat in the capital, the council party chairman, Tony Mbaegbu, accused Okorocha of being unfair to the people of the area. In a letter to the governor, he stated: “While it is true that you are our son and brother, it is instructive that we make it abundantly clear to you that you dealt so treacherously with us, such that you kept the entire Ideato South in perpetual darkness. No electricity in the entire local government for your eight years tenure, which is rounding off in few days. “A trip to Ideato South from all angles of the state is usually a tale of ruination, trepidation and outright neglect, with the exception of your last-minute fire brigade approach to road construction within your immediate community of Ogboko. Hence, virtually all the major entrances leading to Ideato North/South are in decay.” He continued: “Therefore, we plead that you do not break the bridge or unduly create enmity between our local government and the incoming administration such that it will become difficult for us to establish the needed good working relationship for the benefits of our neglected communities, even when we have you as our brother and governor of the state for eight years with little or nothing to show for it.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .