 Cast of Knockout on set  The latest commendation is coming from Executive Chairman, Federal Inland Revenue Services (FIRS), Dr Babatunde Fowler, who was at a private screening of the movie at Genesis Deluxe Cinemas Lekki, Lagos.Speaking shortly after the screening, the FIRS boss said: “It’s a very interesting movie which shows the talents we have in Nigeria. When people think about movies, their minds go to the foreign movies, but this is certainly a first-class movie and I think it would be acceptable and watched all over the world.” Responding to gesture, the Executive Producer of the movie, Wale Adenuga said he is greatly impressed by the unprecedented performance of FIRS under Dr Fowler, adding that he has contributed immensely in revenue generation for the provision of amenities and the overall betterment of the country. “He has also been very supportive of the Nigerian Entertainment Industry thus creating jobs for millions of our youths and turning their dreams into reality,” Adenuga stated. The comedy film, which hit the cinemas on Good Friday with many life lessons, had since dominated the Box Office as the most-watched Nigerian movie.Directed by Patience Oghre, the movie features leading Nollywood stars such as Sola Sobowale, Chiwetalu Agu, Ngozi Nwosu, Desmond Elliot, Jide Kosoko, Hafiz Oyetoro (Saka), Segun Arinze, Toyin Abraham, Patience Ozokwor (Mama G), Odunlade Adekola and Ali Nuhu The movie also features popular comedians including Kenny Blaq, Charles Okocha, Woli Arole, Gbenga Adeyinka, Klint Da Drunk, Yaw, Funky Mallam, Josh2funny, Akpan & Oduma, MC Lively, and Princess among others. Known for his inspiring television series, such as the award winning Super Story, Adenuga the new offering brings his expertise at a time when the Nigerian movie industry after years of coming on board still battling with incoherent, low quality, which make only few of the movies in the country appealing to the international audience and some local spectators. Commenting on rationale for the movie, the producer, Wale Adenuga Jnr., said:
“We want to show the whole world that we are not only for TV production, now we are back to film and we are going to make it regular. We are ready to give them the best and to make them laugh than they ever laugh before.” “We are glad everyone at the premiere had lots of fun and we apologise to those who suffered ‘laughter overdose’ from the hilarious movie. Seriously speaking, though, Knockout is an excellent opportunity for the whole family to bond, laugh and learn,” he added.  Adenuga Jnr., explained that the storyline of the movie was centered on comical occurrences that sent a group of people into frenzy after the news about a boxing competition with a cash prize of N1 billion ($3 Million) broke out. They devise mischievous means to participate in the competition, with firm eyes on the prize. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .