Voters in Malawi cast ballots on Tuesday in a closely fought election, with President Peter Mutharika battling to hold off two serious rivals in a race that has focused on corruption allegations and economic development. Mutharika, who has been in power since 2014, faces opposition from his own deputy Saulos Chilima and former Baptist preacher Lazarus Chakwera. "I am happy that I have voted," said Mutharika, 78, leader of the ruling Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) after leaving a polling station in Thyolo town outside Blantyre. "There are very long lines but I am encouraging everyone to vote because it is the people who will decide." His campaign for a second term has highlighted his record of improving roads and electricity infrastructure across the southeastern African country. Under Mutharika, inflation has fallen from 23 percent to below nine percent, but still just 11 percent of the population has access to electricity. The election is the first since a new law forced parties to declare large donations and banned the once-common practice by candidates of giving cash handouts. "We need jobs to change our lives and that is what I hope my candidate does," Madalitso Willie, 25, a motor mechanic in Lilongwe, told AFP, declining to reveal his preference. "We have been disappointed so many times before but now we want something different," said Violet Moyo, a 30-year-old businesswoman. "I'm super excited for voting." Strong challenge 
Food shortages, graft scandals and ballooning external debt have hurt Mutharika's popularity while in office. He faces a strong challenge from Chakwera, leader of the main opposition Malawi Congress Party (MCP), who came a narrow second in the 2014 election. "We mounted a very formidable campaign unlike any other party and unlike any other year," Chakwera said after voting in Lilongwe as crowds scrambled to see him. "We are positive about the result." Mutharika's other opponent, Chilima, quit the ruling party last year to form the youth-focused United Transformation Movement, while staying on as vice president. Under Malawi law, the president cannot fire the vice president. Chilima, 46, emphasised his youth credentials by doing push-ups on stage during the campaign, while his wife released a popular rap video extolling his qualities to be president. More than half of the 6.8-million registered voters are under 35. "Today we start a new beginning, a new life for Malawi," Chilima told AFP. Early results are expected on Wednesday evening or Thursday. Dan Banik, a politics professor at the University of Malawi, told AFP that the election posed many questions. "What will happen when a winner is declared by a narrow margin?" he said. "How will losing presidential candidates take defeat? Will supporters of the incumbent DPP peacefully accept losing?" Banik said that the election commission and the courts could be severely tested by counting complaints after polling day when voters also choose lawmakers and local councillors. Graft scandals 
In Malawi's "winner takes all" system, Mutharika won in 2014 with just 36 percent of the vote. He came to power in the aid-dependent country vowing to tackle corruption after the "Cashgate" scandal erupted a year earlier, revealing massive looting from state coffers. But his government has been dogged by several high-profile cases of corruption and nepotism. Last November, Mutharika himself was forced to return a $200,000 (180,000 euro) donation from a businessman facing a corruption case in a $3-million contract to supply food to the Malawi police. "It will even be more uncertain and tight than last time. It could undermine the legitimacy of the winning candidate," said Michael Jana, a Malawi politics specialist at Johannesburg's University of the Witwatersrand. Malawi won independence from Britain in 1964 and was then ruled by Hastings Banda as a one-party state until the first multi-party elections in 1994. The country, which has a population of 18 million people, has one million adults living with HIV -- one of the highest HIV prevalence rates in the world. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .