 PHOTO: Thetoc.gr  The incident occurred at Kaduna Koro area, a suburb of Lafia, the state capital, along the Lafia-Makurdi highway at about 1:00a.m. Narrating the incident to newsmen in Lafia on Sunday, an eyewitness who simply identified himself as Daddy, said the gunmen arrived the Commissioner’s residence with arms and terrorized the occupants leading to the shooting of the deceased. Daddy, who claimed he was hiding in a vehicle parked within the Commissioner’s residence, narrated that the gunmen attacked the university student who they first came across and shot him at close range, chasing him as he attempted to escape with gunshot wounds before using sticks to beat him till he bled to death. The eyewitness continued that the gunmen also beat some of the occupants of the residence demanding the whereabouts of the commissioner who was said to have traveled with some members of his family to Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital, for the wedding ceremony of his son. Other occupants who were left behind in the compound escaped into the bushes as the gunmen had a field day using diggers and other tools to dug their way into the commissioner’s living room. Speaking over the attack, the Commissioner said: “The issue arose from the victory of the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in Ihuman Ward, which the party had never won since its existence hence it angered a lot of people. And since that victory, my life has been under threat from some individuals.” Meanwhile, a 20-year-old girl name withheld has been kidnapped in Jega Local Government Area of Kebbi State. A family source told newsmen in Birnin Kebbi that she was kidnapped on Saturday morning and the kidnappers were demanding N10 million from the family. It was gathered that similar incidents happened at Bayankara bypass where a married woman was kidnapped and the family paid N5 million to secure her release. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer denied the allegations, said the state command is not aware of the issue. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .