CEO of Pixels Digital Photography, Omolaraeni Olaosebikan (right) presenting golf apparels to South Africa-based golfer, Saheed Badmus, at Ibadan Golf Club…recently. • Thanks Pixels, others for supporting career
Saheed Idowu Badmus is one Nigerian budding talent, who believes that success only comes through hard work. A member of the Ibadan Golf Club, Badmus is working to get his game to the level where he would become one of the world’s most recognised golfers in the near future. Part of his route to the top is a residential programme in South Africa, where he is learning the ways of successful professional golfers. Badmus is thankful to the corporate bodies and individuals that have contributed to his sojourn in South Africa to learn professional golfing. He is currently studying at the Golf School of Excellence in Cape Town, South Africa. Last weekend, Badmus was at the Ibadan Golf Club to receive some playing apparels from the Chief Executive Officer of Pixels Digital Photography, Ms. Omolaraeni Olaosebikan. Speaking on his experience in the game so far, Badmus pointed at Pixels as among the few corporate outfits that have supported his aspirations of becoming a professional golf player, saying he would always be grateful for its kind gesture and also proud to identify with the brand. “I really appreciate my major sponsors, Akogun Tunde Afolabi, and the newly-elected Governor of Oyo State, Seyi Makinde, as well as Chief Babajide Agbeja, for their encouragement and support for my development in golf. “They have given me the opportunity to understand the game better at the Golf School Of Excellence in Cape Town, South Africa. “I believe the only way I can appreciate their support is to come out in flying colours and be the most promising star Africa has ever witnessed in the game of golf,” he noted. Explaining her outfit’s support for Badmus, Ms. Olaosebikan said such gesture fell under their corporate social responsibility (CSR), adding that they would not relent in supporting the special talents in Nigerians. She advised Badmus to work harder to reach the level expected of somebody blessed with his type of talent. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .