 Prof Umar Garba Danbatta, Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive of Nigerian Communications Commission<br />Delivering the Opening Remarks at 87th Telecom Consumer Parliament. Photo/Twitter/NgComCommission  When fully on stream, the process would also tackle issues relating to online child protection, privacy, data protection and objectionable content among others. The Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of NCC Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, dropped this hint at the 48th town hall meeting of the commission held in Ile Ife, Osun state at the weekend. Danbatta, who spoke through the Deputy Director, Consumer Affairs, Alhaji Ismail Adedigba, noted that the Internet Code would be a regulatory interventions that would not only help to secure the Cyber space against imminent threats from Cyber attackers but also to address critical issues in the provision and usage of telecoms services.He said the theme of the town hall meeting, “Mitigating Effects of Cybercrimes: The Role of Telecoms Consumers” was apt and carefully chosen for the benefit of all stakeholders in the sector and the society. The NCC boss said as a major regulator in the industry, the commission would always rise to the challenges through different fora to sensitize telecoms consumers on the rising wave of Cybercrimes in its various forms.He said the fresh initiative by the commission was further informed by liberalization of the Telecoms Industries which had led to an unprecedented increase in the usage and dependence on Internet-based solutions and services. He noted the yearly meeting with stakeholders and other complementary initiatives had been helpful to all and brought about an improvement in service delivery and satisfaction of consumers. Danbatta said, “These programmes have been put in place based on the commission’s understanding that telecoms consumers are important stakeholders in the telecommunication industry. The need to continuously keep them informed on new developments and issues of concern in the industry is therefore held in high esteem by the commission. “Let me emphasise that while the regulatory intervention and other initiatives are on-going to sanitise internet space, telecoms consumers, majority of whom now use internet- enabled and other smart devices must play their role. Thus the need for you all to take this meeting seriously as we educate you on what your roles should be in minimizing the effects of cybercrimes” In her opening remarks, the Director, Consumer Affairs Bureau, Mrs. Felicia Onwuegbuchulam noted cyber space covers everything consumers do online or with computing devices, including mobile phones tablets and personal computers.She said while the commission introduces various measures to increase access to internet by Nigerians for positive engagements, “we are nonetheless conscious of dishonest individuals who are bent on using the Internet for illegal activities”.The Consumer Advocacy Group (CAG) in a lead paper highlighted different forms of cybercrimes including phishing scams, identity theft, child soliciting, online scams, malware among others.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .