Rap is unarguably the official music genre of summer. And so far, 2019 has brought us some bangers. No need to search through the millions of rap songs on Apple Music or Spotify, because we’re here to bring you the ultimate playlist. From Lizzo to Drake to Cardi B, check out the best rap songs of 2019: 1. ‘Tempo,’ by Lizzo and Missy Elliot There is no better collaboration than Lizzo and Missy Elliott. 2.’Middle Child,’ by J. Cole J. Cole is pretty much the constant when it comes to rappers we stan. The low-key rapper, singer and songwriter, producer talks about being the middle child of rap artists, stuck between mentoring 21 Savage but still looking up to older artists like Jay Z. 3. ‘Pure Water,’ by Mustard featuring Migos Pure Water is definitely a rap song for the summer. With an easy-to-remember chorus that will inevitably get stuck in your head. 4. ‘Wish Wish,’ by DJ Khaled featuring Cardi B and 21 Savage “Whatever you do, sis, keep it cute, sis.” You already know, If it’s got Cardi, you already know it’s going to be good. 5.’Going Bad,’ by Meek Mill featuring Drake And yet another club banger, “Going Bad” will be on repeat for likely the entire summer. 6. ‘Dance,’ by Megan Thee Stallion Megan Thee Stallion’s latest album, Fever, literally just dropped, and it’s filled with more jams just like this. 7. ‘Wow Remix,’ by Post Malone, Roddy Ricch, and Tyga Post Malone definately gave us another summer jam. 8. ‘Six Flags,’ by Tokyo Jetz featuring Plies Trust me. You’re going to want to gather your girls when you turn this song on. 9. ‘My Type,’ by Saweetie This song is gong to make you feel like you’re back in High school. 10.’Groceries,’ by Chance the Rapper Your favorite Chicago native is back with his latest, and it won’t disappoint. 11. ‘Project Dreams,’ by Marshmello and Roddy Ricch It’s the perfect balance of Marshmello’s sound with Roddy Ricch lyrics 12. ‘Twerk,’ by City Girls featuring Cardi B If anyone’s allowed to make this list twice, it’s Cardi. Her new song with City Girls will make you do exactly what it’s named after.