 Tax  Every human being that is of economic value has a price tag, either you are rich or poor. The so-called rich have a price tag, which is their net worth. What is the amount of tax that they are paying; are they paying at all or not? That is tax equity. There must be tax equity across board. So, what we are demanding is tax equity and social freedom. Also, all these PPPs that government is going into with countries around the world, what are their implications to our children,” he asked.
   
At the workshop, which had participants drawn from 16 states – Abia, Imo, Enugu, Lagos, Delta, Akwa Ibom, Anambra, Ebonyi, Cross River, Bayelsa, Edo, Ondo, Ogun, Ekiti, Oyo and Rivers state, it was noted that lack of coordination of tax justice efforts in the formal and informal sectors of the economy lead to reduced results.
 
It was also noted that the vague and open-ended nature of some items on the approved taxes and levies list was responsible for the exploitation of the poor and the widening of the inequality gap. 
   
They hinted that the unavailability of robust database for Federal, State and Local Government taxpayers, has led to complications on tax collection on each level.
   
Specifically, Senior Consultant, Frontline Consulting, Mrs. Victoria Okonko lamented that despite increased number of taxes approved for collection, a lot of illegal charges exist in some states and local governments.
   
She identified the illegal charges to include: environmental support fees, permit/processing fees, pest/vector controls fees and rumination charges, effluent discharge and turbidity levy, operational permit/sewage, LG support levy, LGA sanitation and ecological tariff. She noted that the states involved in these “illegal” taxes cut across board but are more pronounced in Abia, Edo, Bayelsa, Delta, Ondo, Bauchi, Kaduna, Plateau, Kastina and Federal Capital Territory (FCT)
   
She therefore recommended education for taxpayers on approved taxes and review of States and Local Government operations by the Joint Tax Board (JTB).
   
“There should be a mechanism to pass all proposed tax laws through a central body, perhaps the JTB in addition to the existing procedures to ensure that arbitrary/similar tax laws, which are disconnected with the overall policy direction are not included.”
   
The consultant bemoaned that despite fines and imprisonment stipulated by relevant laws, there were still occasions of tax touting in the country. 
   
She noted that it is now common that unprofessional and untrained individuals were engaged to enforce collection of taxes and levies. “Only professionally trained personnel should be involved in tax assessment and collection. The JTB could explore the possibility of centrally recruiting, training and deploying personnel to collect taxes at LG level to ensure professionalism and reduce multiple taxation.”
   
In the communique signed at the end of the workshop, the group recommended massive deployment of technology in the tax collection process to ensure transparency and to block leakages.
   
It also asked that JTB, which comprises the Federal, State and Local Governments should expedite the process of harmonizing taxes across the federation and streamlining collection points to avoid multiple taxation and extortion.
   
It also urged government to review existing tax laws to meet with contemporary economic realities, as well as ensure the achievement of voluntary compliance by taxpayers.
   
“CSOs should expand and deepen advocacy on tax policy improvement to deepen commitment to reducing inequality. CSOs should aggressively deepen advocacy and sensitization amongst the vulnerable groups, most especially women in the informal sector from being harassed and overburdened by tax payment,” the group said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .