Chelsea’s transfer ban for two windows has been upheld by the  international governing body, Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA). FIFA said it is upholding the ban because the “Chelsea’s wrongdoing consisted in not respecting the prohibition from internationally transferring or registering for the first time foreign minor players. “In the committee´s opinion, imposing a ban on registering each and every minor would not be proportionate to the offence committed,” FIFA said on its official website on Wednesday. The governing body, however, lifted the ban on signing U-16 players. “The ban shall not cover the registration of minor players under the age of 16 who do not fall under the scope of art,” the governing body said. FIFA had found the English club guilty of a serious and systemic breach of the rules regarding their dealings with overseas players under the age of 18. The club moved swiftly to  appeal the ban. The football governing body had looked into more than 100 player cases at Chelsea and it emerged that they had charged them with 92 breaches of article 19 alone – the most serious infringement relating to the registration of minors. Chelsea were found guilty in 29 of those cases. The club were also found to have broken other rules, including article 18bis, which concerns third-party influence. FIFA said that Chelsea were guilty “in connection with two agreements it concluded concerning minors and which allowed it to influence other clubs in transfer-related matters”. Chelsea were fined 600,000 Swiss francs (£460,000) and given 90 days to “regularise the situation of the minor players concerned”, which could involve them being forced to move on anyone brought to the club in contravention of the regulations. “Chelsea FC categorically refutes the findings of the Fifa disciplinary committee and will therefore be appealing the decision,” the club said. “Initially, Chelsea FC was charged under Articles 19.1 and 19.3 in relation to 92 players. We welcome the fact that Fifa has accepted that there was no breach in relation to 63 of these players, but the club is extremely disappointed that Fifa has not accepted the club’s submissions in relation to the remaining 29 players. Chelsea FC acted in accordance with the relevant regulations.” With the ban upheld, Chelsea is expected to approach the Court of Arbitration for Sports (CAS) and they will look to get the verdict frozen or overturned at the CAS.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .