Akwa Ibom state government has barred its appointees from granting interviews or speaking on issues concerning the state without permission from the governor. The directive was contained in a press statement issued and signed by the Secretary to the State Government, Dr Emmanuel Ekuwem and made available to journalists in Uyo on Wednesday. The government appointees directly affected by the directive include all Commissioners, Special Advisers, Members of Boards and Commissions, Special Assistants and other Personal Aides. “As part of efforts to streamline and ensure a coordinated approach to information management and dissemination, the Akwa Ibom State Government has directed that all government functionaries, including Commissioners, Special Advisers, Members of Boards and Commissions, Special Assistants and other Personal Aides of the Governor, should
henceforth desist from granting press interviews without the permission of His Excellency the Governor, Mr Udom Emmanuel. “The Honorable Commissioner for Information and Strategy as well as the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor are exempted from this directive. They will continue to carry out their functions accordingly as the spokespersons to the State Government and His Excellency the Governor respectively,” he said. The statement dated May 8, “titled granting of press interviews, added that the directive was with immediate effect. Despite the concern which the directive has generated among the people of the state, the commissioner for information and strategy, Charles Udoh, in a radio programme refused to give a reason for the sudden action of government aimed at hoarding information dissemination in the state. Most of the residents who spoke with The Guardian on the development wondered why the government should come up with such order. Especially at a time that the residents would be interested in hearing from the appointees what he/she has for the masses in the next four years. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .