When five of Africa’s biggest stars – Tonto Dikeh, Dakore Egbuson, Linda Ejiofor, Former BBNaija Housemate, CeeC – joined the Super Falcons, for an all-new television commercial, it was only befitting for premium malt drink Amstel Malta, known for inspiring people to live their best lives, to be actively involved. The advert, which was shot in collaboration with Amstel Malta, featured some of the leading female football stars including Asisat Oshoala, Onome Ebi, Rita Chikwelu, Ngozi Okobi-Okeoghene, and Tochukwu Oluehi. The new commercial celebrates “The Power of Women”, and features an all-female cast, including acclaimed video director Kemi Adetiba and photographer, Yetunde Babaeko. These ladies who continue to show that a woman can make giant strides in a chosen path and still enjoy life are proof that everyone can. No other activity brings out the united energy of Nigerians like football, and of recent, no other team has made us more proud than the Super Falcons. This year at the world’s greatest sporting spectacle for women, the FIFA Women’s World Cup, the Super Falcons, will be representing 180 million people, going for glory in the world acclaimed competition. Nigerian footballers The ladies who have won nine African championships are the highest globally ranked Nigerian senior football team. As current champions of Africa they have boldly gone on to achieve something unprecedented, setting the standard for others to aspire to. What makes their success star-quality is that they had no prior example – no team in Nigeria had ever achieved on that scale. They have been brave and bold – they have broken the ceiling. They have demonstrated the spirit we all want to celebrate in Nigeria. In this spirit of celebrating the Power of Women, Amstel Malta, Nigeria’s Number One premium malt brand is proud of these women as well as every other Nigerian woman. Asisat Oshoala is a distinguished footballer who plays for Spanish club, FC Barcelona Femeni in the Primera Division as a forward Professional Footballer. She was named best player and was the highest goal scorer at the 2014 FIFA U-20 Women’s World Cup. She was also named best player and second top goalscorer with the Super Falcons team who won the 2014 African Women’s Championship. Oshoala was also a member of the Super Falcons team who won the African Women’s Championship in 2016 and 2018. Asisat draws inspiration from winning, and has become a serial winner being one of Africa’s most decorated footballers. Asisat is a strong woman who knew early what she wanted from life, and in the process withstood strong parental pressure to dump the football career which has made her a global icon today. Onome Ebi is also an accomplished footballer currently playing for Henan Huishang of China as a defender. Ebi is a member of the Nigerian national team, taking part in 2003, 2007, 2011 and 2015 edition of the FIFA Women’s World Cup and the 2008 Beijing Olympics. Onome draws inspiration from aerobics, which she actively does on her own at home. Onome was another strong woman who courageously resisted parental pressure to ditch football, but has now won over her parents who are now among her most strident fans. Rita Chikwelu plays for Swedish Damallsvenskan club Kristianstads DFF. She previously played for Umeå IK. She is also a member of the Nigeria women’s national football team, The Super Falcons. From 2006 to 2009 Chikwelu played in Finland for FC United. She was the top scorer of Finnish women’s league Naisten Liiga in 2009 with 22 goals. She was a member of the Nigerian Olympic team which participated in the 2008 Summer Olympics in China and a member of the Nigerian squad in the 2011 FIFA Women’s World Cup. Rita draws inspiration from leadership, having been appointed captain of Nigeria’s Super Falcons. Rita’s strength is demonstrated in her very visible leadership ability – not every woman can lead a team of leaders like the Super Falcons, yet she does it with considerable skill and character. Super Falcons Ngozi Okobi plays as a forward for Eskilstuna United DFF of Sweden. Ngozi played the 2008 FIFA U-17 Women’s World Cup, 2010 FIFA U-17 Women’s World Cup and 2012 FIFA U-20 Women’s World Cup with the Falconets, Nigeria’s female youth team. At the senior level, she was part of the squad at the African Women’s Championship tournaments of 2010, 2012 and 2014, winning two of them (2010 and 2014). She also played for Nigeria at the 2015 FIFA Women’s World Cup. Ngozi draws inspiration from relationships and celebrated her marriage’s one year anniversary December last year. Ngozi’s signature characteristic on the field of play is her remarkable resilience – which is attested to by her colleagues. That resilience stems from learning and rebounding from the tough lessons life has brought her way. Today she shines bright. Tochukwu is a Nigerian football goalkeeper who plays for Medkila IL and the Nigeria women’s national football team. Tochukwu played for Bobruichanka Bobruisk in the 2013–14 UEFA Women’s Champions League. Tochukwu seems to draw inspiration from her sense of patriotism, which shines brightly as she keeps the goal posts safe during Super falcon football matches. She is particularly proud of her unique ability in stopping penalty kicks, which has been invaluable for her and for the Super falcons over the course of her career. Tochukwu’s strength as a woman is demonstrated by her courage, calmness and nerves of steel in front of goal as she makes penalty saves that have often decided games and championships – the latest being the Super Falcons’ 9th African Women Championship in Accra Ghana. A household name in Nigeria’s entertainment scene, Tonto Dikeh has embraced life’s challenges and successes all while enjoying life’s pleasures. Overcoming the loss of her mother at the tender age of 3, and perennial wave of negative media reportage, Tonto has continued to thrive a movie star, producer, recording music artiste, model, and philanthropist. Tonto started the Tonto Dikeh foundation in 2014, which helps women fight against injustice and offers them psychological help. And like Amstel Malta, she draws inspiration from helping other women live better lives. Cynthia Nwadiora, popularly known as Cee-C, is a former Big Brother Naija housemate and 1st Runner-Up in the 2018 Big Brother Naija TV Reality Show and CEO Dynasty By CeeC. Cynthia is a lawyer, model, brand ambassador, and influencer, actress and a fashion and fitness enthusiast among others. She is currently one of the most followed reality television stars in Nigeria with over 1.6 million Instagram followers, and has recently launched her fitness clothing line Cegar on May 20 2019. persistent criticism and abuse from detractors, including physical abuse on her return from South Africa in April 2018, Cee-C demonstrates the power of women by rising above hate and showing that true love conquers all. Linda is a Nigerian actress and model known for her role as Bimpe Adekoya in M-Net’s TV series Tinsel. Overcoming initial parental opposition to her media career, Linda persevered to become one of Nigeria’s most visible actresses. She was nominated for Best Actress in a Supporting Role at the 9th Africa Movie Academy Awards for her role in the film The Meeting (2012). She has been nominated for numerous awards and won Africa Movie Academy Awards Best Actress in a Supporting Role. Linda like most Nigerian women is a hard worker who is notable for taking in, enjoying and celebrating life’s moments ensuring she’s living her best life. Dakore Akande is a notable Nigerian actress and is an ambassador for Amstel Malta, Amnesty International and Oxfam of America. She has featured in over 50 films, including Caught in the Middle (2007), Journey to Self (2013), Lunch Time Heroes (2015), Fifty (2015) and Isoken (2017) amongst others. Dakore has had to shrug off negative public comments surrounding her high profile marriage to emerge stronger in the arts scene. Dakore draws inspiration from making social impact, which is demonstrated by her involvement with such organizations such as Amnesty International and Oxfam. Kemi Adetiba is an award-winning Nigerian filmmaker, music and video director whose works have appeared on Channel O, MTV Base, Soundcity TV, BET and Netflix. Among several success stories, Kemi was the brains behind the movie ‘’King of Boys’’ which boasted all star cast and is the fourth highest grossing Nollywood movie of all time and the longest running film at the number one spot in Nigeria. She also directed world acclaimed film The Wedding Party. Kemi has with her King Woman series and several other projects, like Amstel Malta, highlighted stories of women’s falls, rises, strengths and successes to celebrate The Power of Women. Yetunde Ayeni-Babaeko was born in Enugu, Eastern Nigeria in 1978 to a Nigerian father and a German mother. She moved to Germany as a child and completed her high school diploma (Abitur) before embarking on a photography apprenticeship majoring in advertising photography at Studio Be in Greven, Germany. On completing her apprenticeship in 2003, she returned to Nigeria and joined Ess-Ay Studio for a 12-month photography program, facilitated by Invent, Germany. This experience spurred her to deepen her photographic skills by enrolling at Macromedia, a school for art and design in Osnabrueck, Germany. Yetunde’s strength and resilience is visible in her work even as she worked with Amstel Malta to capture the power of women. The combined stories of these ladies and their impact is proof of the power women possess and Amstel Malta wishes to celebrate. As the Super Falcons take on the 2019 FIFA Female World Cup, set to hold in France, from June 7th to July 7th, 2019, the leading Malt brand endears every Nigerian to put on the ‘Truly Nigerian’ spirit that fuels our one voice and unwavering support, ultimately inspiring the team with strength and motivation to score great goals and attain success.