 Popular Nigerian singer, Timi Dakolo has taken to social media to allege that a  call out a pastor in Common Wealth of Zion Assembly (COZA).   In his accusations, the entertainer alleged that the church turns a blind eye to the atrocities committed by the pastor and even go as far as aiding and abetting him by covering up the crimes of sexual abuse of church members.   Dakolo shared,   “Common wealth ko Zion ni. Church is suppose to fix broken people and not crush people who show up in church needing God.”   Some of his posts reads,   “From Ilorin to Abuja to Lagos, to Dubai to Port Harcourt, to London and any city he visits, your pastor is leaving a trail of broken women, sexually abused and mentally strangled. From Avalanche to Gratitude, from Pastoral Care Unit to Host and Hostesses. From Witty Inventions to Hospitality Unit. They are found in every department in that ‘Church’. He hand picks his victims and ruin them.”   “So none of you wonder why a dedicate church worker or leader stop coming to coming to church and don’t want to talk about it. Suddenly rumours start flying around about that person being evil. I will tell you all straight up, all your branch pastors know about this evil going on for years and are part of it.”   “Some of the victims they will threaten, some they will pay off and some they will suppress by isolating from the church members. Oga criminal lawyer always ready to do the dirty work behind the scene just to drown the truth. Dear church members, try and find these ladies and men to hear their sides of the truth before crucifying them or branding them evil, Trust me, their side of the story will SHOCK YOU.”   It would be recalled that last year, Dakolo accused Pastor Biodun Fatoyinbo of sleeping with virgins. He made this known in reaction to a certain Ese Walter who accused the COZA pastor of having his way with her.   In reaction to this, Dakolo wrote,   ”Your Abuja pastor you people are shouting mentor and praising everywhere should be in jail. The amount of pain and ruins he has left innocent girls in. Forcefully taking away their innocence even in their teenage years. Forever leaving a deep dent in their soul..Man of which God?”   Dakolo  further advised the ladies who have been victims of the pastor’s act to know that they are not alone.   “To all the women out there that have been a victim to this issue, you are not alone. Your truth will be heard whether people believe your truth or not.”