 The Grand Chief Imam of Lagos, Shaykh Sulayman Abou Na’Allah (left); Commissioner, Ministry of Home Affairs, Dr. Abdul Hakeem Abdu Lateef; Governor of Lagos State, Akinwunmi Ambode; the Deputy Governor, Dr. Idiat Adebule, during the Iftar/Tafsir and Ramadan Special Prayer at the Lagos State House, Alausa, Ikeja.<br />  Speaking during during the Iftar/Tafsir and Ramadan Special Prayer at the Lagos State House, Alausa, Ikeja the governor thanked Islamic Ulamas, divisional Imams, including the Grand Chief Imam of Lagos, Sheikh Sulayman Abu Na Allah, and other spiritual Islamic leaders for their total participation and support for his administration’s policies and programmes. He implored them to continue to mobilise their respective congregations and followers for the in-coming administration. He said by the prayers and collaborations of Muslims and other well meaning Lagosians, so much had been achieved by his administration and solid foundation to sustain further growth and development had been laid. He said, “You welcomed me, a Christian Governor, totally; you lifted me up and further uplifted me; whatever I was able to achieve is by the foundation you had laid. Please accept and extend same hands of fellowship to the incoming administration, as any achievement in Lagos is for the benefits of all Lagosians. “ However, he enjoined all Muslims to rededicate themselves to the righteous ways and uphold the key pillar and lessons of Ramadan. He advised all to reflect on their lives and think of how they “can be better persons”, how better they “can serve their family, community, society and the nation.” Ambode said, “though we have witnessed unprecedented level of peace, religious harmony and inter-faith cooperations and collaborations, the like of which had never been recorded anywhere in the country, we can still do a lot, for greater dividend of democracy to accrue for the enjoyment of all Lagosians. Commissioner of Home Affairs, Dr. Abdul Hakeem Abdul Lateef, thanked Governor Akinwunmi Ambode for his total commitment to Islamic activists, his unwavering identification with Islamic religious festivals and his total support for all initiatives in pursuant of peaceful coexistence and religious harmony in Lagos State. Speaking on the prevailing unprecedented level of peace and religious harmony, Abdul Lateef said, Lagos had not witnessed any religious crisis, because of the noble initiatives of Governor Ambode. While presenting Letter of Recognition for Excellence to His Excellency, Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, for his (Governor’s) friendship and generosity to the Muslims in the State, Director of Muslims’ Right Concerns (MURIC), Professor Ishaq Lakin Akintola, expressed appreciation to him for his,”gentlemanly attitudes” to Muslims and for his novel achievements in infrastructural development of the State, for sustaining industrial peace and for regularly paying workers’ salaries and for sustaining the enviable level of peace and tranquility in Lagos. The Grand Chief Imam of Lagos, Sheikh Nolah commended Ambode for his achievements, starting that, hard work and dedication “are the hallmarks and reasons for his many great successes.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .