Access Bank Access Bank Plc said it is targeting about 100,000 subscribers in its XclusivePlus platform, a premium subscription lifestyle, which was launched last year, to offer clients with exceptional services and exclusive privileges that would impact the lives of the customers by December. Speaking in Lagos, recently, the Head, Consumer Proposition, Access Bank Plc, Dolapo Orelaja, who believes the target would be exceeded given its recent merger with defunct Diamond Bank, said the plan is part of the bank’s commitment to render exceptional services to its customers. She said Access Bank had conducted a survey on customers’ need, and discovered a rise in spending on luxury travel and products, which led to the introduction of the product.
The XclusivePlus, which currently have about 11,000 subscribers, will therefore enable customers have access to about 800 premium lounges globally, 36 exclusive lounges within Nigeria, located in branches and at the airport as well as free multi-trade travel insurance, medical assistance and free movie tickets monthly and quarterly. “Customers stand to benefit immensely once a customer gets upgraded to a visa signature card in which he or she would have access to all these proposition.
“We are deepening our relationship with our customers, as this proposition is our own little way of adding value to our customers. For Xclusive Plus, there is a subscription fee – a monthly subscription fee of N5,999 for you to have access to lounges 24 hours, VIP treatment in over 900 hotels and other benefits. Customers can also choose to do quarterly subscription which is about N17,997. We are offering a 20 per cent discount to customers who would want to subscribe annually, which is about N57,599, rather than pay N75,000.” Also speaking, Proposition Manager, Access Bank, Adeola Rojaye, explained that customers just need to walk into any of the bank’s branches and subscribe to the XclusivePlus proposition, adding that given its easy-entry-easy-exit status, customers can opt out once they feel it is no longer enhancing their lifestyle. A subscriber of the product, Ifeoma Nwigwe, a Fitness Instructor, said the proposition is cost-effective, saying she would recommend it to her friends. She recalled that: “There was a girl managing my account, and it was just a regular Diamond Bank account, and she told me about the Xclusive account and the benefits, and I subscribed. Few months later, I had to travel out of Nigeria, and when I got to the airport, I remembered that it was an Access Bank lounge there, and I went in and gave them my card, and it felt like I was flying business/first class because it was an exclusive lounge.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .