A young man, whose name was given as Onyekwere Aji, on Tuesday evening at Ikpamaodo, Enugu Ezike, Igbo Eze North Local Government Area of Enugu State, went wild and used a cutlass on a mother of six as well as a vigilante man who came to stop him from causing more havoc. The man, who is believed to be mentally deranged, on the fateful day, went into a bush where the woman was cutting grasses for her domestic animals and gave her machete cuts on the head, thereby leaving her to die in a pool of blood, but help came before she would have bled to death and was rushed to a hospital in the area. Instead of running away after inflicting the machete cuts on her, the young man was said to have stayed behind apparently to watch her die or see who would rescue her. One of the woman’s children who heard her wailing and rushed to the scene, raised the alarm that attracted the villagers It was when the villagers tried to wrestle the weapon from him that he gave a young man who is one of the vigilance group members several machete cuts until he was eventually overpowered. It was gathered that the angry villagers tied him to pole like an animal in the village market so that the two could be attended to in the hospital. Speaking from her hospital bed, the woman who gave her name as Nwaka, said she was close-door neighbor to the man, adding that she did not do anything to him except reminding him that the portion of land where he planted his banana belonged to her family. She said while they were exchanging words, neighbours counseled her to let him be which she did, not knowing that he has been nursing ill feelings against her since then. “He is my neighbour’s son. I know that he is not normal and when he planted banana on our land, I let him be when neighbours advised me to leave him. I didn’t know if that was why he came for me that day,” she said painfully. The vigilance group official who was also admitted in the same hospital narrated how he was attacked when they went to retrieve the knife from him. “When we heard what happened, we went in as a group to take away the knife from him. He was in the house when we came but we did not know that he was hiding and when he saw us, he charged out with his knife raised and while I was running to escape, I tripped and he caught up with me and gave me cuts before others descended on him and wrestled the knife from him,” he explained. Some villagers admitted that the attacker has not been sound but has never attacked people with a machete, which he has been carrying about for some time now. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .