Nigerian Army The Nigerian Army has denied reports that 25 soldiers were killed in a Boko Haram attack in Borno State, saying the report is a rumour and fake news. Director, Army Public Relations, Col. Sagir Musa, said this in a Short Message (SMS) sent to journalists in Maiduguri yesterday. Some reports claimed 25 soldiers were killed when terrorists attacked a military convoy that was evacuating civilians on the Damboa-Biu Road. “Contrary to rumour and fake news in circulation, there was no attack on any of our troops’ locations at Sabon Gari or any other location in Borno State. “I have spoken with the Special Force Commander in Damboa and he confirmed that there was nothing like that in Damboa or any of his locations at the weekend,” he said. However, Chief of Naval Staff (CNS), Vice Admiral Ibok-Ete Ibas, sought prayers against terrorism and other security challenges bedeviling the country. He stated this at an inter-denominational service to mark the Nigerian Navy (NN) 63rd anniversary and canvassed support for Federal Government’s effort to confront current national security threats. “It is trite that occasions like this also call for sober reflection and prayers for our nation, particularly in the face of present daunting security challenges. “I also urge us to pray for our colleagues and members of the armed forces deployed to various terrains and environment in furtherance of efforts to secure our nation,” he said. The Church service, which held at the All Saints’ Military Church, Protestant, Mogadishu Cantonment, Asokoro, Abuja, had representatives of service chiefs and other dignitaries in attendance. Besides, Boko Haram insurgency has denied about 600,000 people healthcare services, as 5.4 million persons are in need of health services to survive. The World Health Organisation (WHO) reached only 4.811 million persons, comprising returnees, Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in camps and host communities. A 2018 WHO annual report released recently in Maiduguri, disclosed that the affected host communities accommodated only 3.64 million IDPs before accessing basic healthcare services. Meanwhile, Ibas has declared that Nigeria would soon overcome terrorism, banditry, oil theft and other security challenges threatening the country. Ibas, who stated this in his goodwill message to the Central Naval Command (CNC) in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, during the Navy Week Interdenominational Church Service, however, sought unity in the Armed Forces. The CNS, whose message was read by Rear Admiral Solomon Agada, on behalf of Flag Officer Commanding, CNC, Rear Admiral Saidu Garba, said the occasion demanded sober reflection and continued prayers for the country. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .