 [FILES] The Guardian gathered from a source that an unspecified number of armed cultists, suspected to be members of Iceland group, invaded Rivers  State community  “The withdrawal of Government Recognition from HRM Chief Monday Frank Noryaa followed his indictment on cult-related activities within his kingdom. The traditional ruler was also indicted for harbouring cultists, leading to insecurity in the area,” he said.He stressed that Wike’s administration remains committed to the promotion of peace and security across the state and empahasied that any traditional ruler or government functionary indicted for promoting insecurity will face the full weight of the law. Meanwhile, the Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Dakuku Peterside, has urged the governor to fight insecurity in the state against spate of killings Dakuku observed that the primary duty of a government was to secure the lives and property of the people, without which citing of infrastructure and any other development would amount to zero. He lamented that gradually, Rivers was becoming where people live in fear of either kidnappers, armed robbers, or marauding cultists, who kill and beheaded at will. “Only on Sunday, reports emerged of mass murder of innocent natives of Kono-Bo-ue, a community in Khana local government area, and by Monday morning, a community leader said it had risen to 20. On Monday morning, also, reports come that on Sunday night, about two persons were killed in Isiodu, Emohua local government area, which were exclusive of the horror that the short Ndele-Ahoada stretch of the East-West road has become to locals and road users,” he said. Dakuku noted that it does not require rocket science to rail-in the patrons, actors and beneficiaries of the crime industry in Rivers.  According to him, all that is needed is the political will on the part of governor to turn the heat on the criminals. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .