 Acting Director-General, SEC, Ms Mary Uduk  Also, the beneficiaries of these sums as indicated in the will or letter of administration were yet to claim the investments and accrued dividends through the share transmission process.
     
Uduk, who was represented by the Acting Executive Commissioner, Operations, SEC, Isyaku Tilde, said the purpose of the enlightenment programme is to give participants an understanding of the operations of the capital market, especially in the areas of transmission of shares and administration of estate; areas in which the Probate Registry is a key stakeholder.		 
She said: “The capital market is a market for raising medium to long term capital via a number of instruments. The most popular of the instruments are shared and bonds with resultant yield of dividends and interests respectively.	 
   
“However, the quantum of unclaimed dividends in the Nigerian capital market has been on the increase, as investors fail to claim the dividend from their investment in shares.”
     
Uduk also congratulated the Probate Registry on the recent inauguration of the e-filing system, saying it will guarantee integrity of data, provide for online tracking of applications, simplify and shorten the application process of Letter of Administration and grants. 
   
She therefore restated SEC’s readiness to collaborate with the probate registry staff so that together the Nigerian capital market can become a desirable investment destination.	 
   
In a keynote address, Justice A.A. Oyebanji, who represented the Chief Judge of Lagos State, commended the Commission on the enlightenment programme, which she said will go a long way in aiding the staff of the Probate Registry in the discharge of their duty.
   
Oyebanji said the Registry processed legal instruments for the administration of the real and personal estate of a deceased, who was a resident, and who owned landed properties in Lagos State. She disclosed that the Registry is also now fully-computerised, and all applications must be made online.
 
“This e-Probate system was introduced primarily to ensure a more efficient delivery of services to elements of the public. It is aimed at reducing significantly the length of time required to obtain a grant in Ikeja of the Lagos Division,” she added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .