Imo State Governor, Rochas Okorocha, has accused the All Progressive Congress (APC) national chairman Adams Oshiomole and other leaders of the party of planning to get him detained by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). In two separate suits filed by the governor marked FHC/ABJ/CS/474/19 and FHC/ABJ/CS/475/19 at a Federal High Court, Abuja, he said the anti-graft agency has been ordered to arrest him immediately after his handing-over on May 29. He also stated that he has been invited by the anti-corruption agencies on several occasions for questioning on the basis of a fake investigation as an excuse to detain him. On this account, the governor asked for a restraining order from the court against the agencies adding that he is innocent of all allegations made against. The defendants, whom the plaintiff is seeking an order to restrain, are the Attorney General of the Federation, the Inspector-General of Police, the Department of State Services, the EFCC, the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission, and the Code of Conduct Bureau. Okorocha accused Oshiomhole and the party leaders of been behind the Independent National Electoral Commission’s withholding of his certificate of return following his victory at the February 23, 2019, Imo West Senatorial District poll. Okorocha claimed that APC leader has been on his trail ever since he supported another candidate for the office of the National Chairman of APC against him. An affidavit filed in support of the suit read in part, “The applicant had supported a candidate for the position of National Chairman of the APC other than the current incumbent, Mr Adams Oshiomhole and by reason of various events that occurred at the time, including the detention of Mr Adams Oshiomhole by the EFCC on allegations of corruption, it was assumed that the applicant was a party to that incident.” Responding to the suit, the EFCC said it was not aware or part of any plan to arrest the Okorocha and his family. The hearing of the case has been adjourned to May 22 before Justice Taiwo Taiwo on May 22. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .