PHOTO: Capital FM Stakeholders recently gathered with security agencies from across Nigeria, at the maiden workshop on process flow in the mobile money ecosystem, to find solutions to fraud in the sector. Under the theme, “Security Organisations: What you need to know about mobile money and payment in Nigeria,” the conference created an opportunity for every security agency in attendance to present three officers, who were trained in the first series of the security summit. Speaking at the workshop organised by Paga, a mobile money company, President, Association of Mobile Money Agents of Nigeria (AMMAN), Victor Olojo, in a statement said: “The security forum put together by Pagatech is a major step in the right direction. Paga as a responsible company has taken the lead in sensitising security operatives and other stakeholders on how the payment system works in Nigeria. “More encouraging for us is that efforts put in place by the company will go a long way in correcting many instances of harassment, intimidation and detaining of agents across the country over irregular payment issues beyond our control”.”
Paga has been at the forefront of driving financial inclusion with support from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). The company has created financial access services points (Agent Network) across Nigeria’s processing payments, especially for the financially-excluded. Co-Founder and Director of Business Development, Paga, Jay Alabraba, said: “At Paga, we constantly seek opportunities to learn and understand how payments are processed and other extraneous variables that could hinder a successful transaction. This security conference which will be held yearly is a great opportunity for both Paga and security agencies to rub minds together and have a smooth working relationship.” Also speaking, Assistant Superintendent of Police, Akinwande Ogundana, said: “This workshop is expository, informative and educative. It makes me understand more about the importance of mobile money operators’ in moving forward the economy of a nation like ours. “The mobile money operators also enhanced the ease of doing business in the country and it made me to realise that there must be a good synergy between the operators and security agencies to enhance the safety of all Nigerians and foreigners in their businesses.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .