 Flour Mills of Nigeria, makers of Golden Penny  The Regulatory Compliance Manager, Mrs. Peters Enitan, at the award ceremony disclosed that the award was a culmination of a series of regulatory inspections conducted by SON, including a production facility tour, on-line sample collection, on the spot analysis of samples collected during inspection to check compliance to SON standards. She added that the feat was also an analysis of selected products in SON’s laboratory to ensure the enrichment of required nutrients and compliance with set standards. “Other aspects of the monitoring visits include, compliance to Good Manufacturing Practices within our production environment, as well as the availability of relevant food safety regulatory documentation of our processes, which are sighted on inspection, and taken with them for their records.” She said. The Managing Director, Foods Division, FMN Devlin Hainsworth,  added that the award was to companies that have distinguished themselves in their various manufacturing and production categories. “FMN’s award is for high performance and continuous improvements to the quality of our products in the Flour milling category. As one of the leading foods and agro-allied groups in Nigeria, we are focused on ensuring that the quality of Golden Penny products continually meets consumer and customer expectations,” he said. Hainsworth added: It is what we are truly passionate about and dedicated to. It is consistent with our purpose of feeding the Nation, Everyday, and ensuring that the millions of Nigerian families who are nourished by our products are always assured of the very best quality at affordable prices.” Earlier, the Director General, SON, Osita Aboloma, said the MANCAP is a mandatory product certification scheme introduced by SON to ensure that all locally manufactured goods conform to the relevant NIS before such products are presented for sale in the market or exported. The SON boss said MANCAP aims to provide a level playing field in competitive domestic and international market, while also preventing the dumping of unsafe and counterfeited products in the country. He said the MANCAP certificate is valid for three years after which the products must undergo re-certification. He however warned that the certificate issued can be withdrawn if the products fails at anytime to meet the requirements of the standards. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .