All is now set for the 12th edition of the annual Indomie Independence Day Awards for Heroes of Nigeria (IIDA) oragnised by Dufil Prima Foods Plc. The award is geared towards the recognition of children who have against all odds, exhibited extraordinary acts of bravery and determination in the face of danger and societal challenges. Speaking at a national press conference in Lagos to kick-start the search exercise for the next set of heroes, Chief Operating Officer, Dufil Prima Foods Plc., Girish Sharma said the declaration heralds the commencement of the field search and call for entry for the prestigious award for deserving Nigerian children. In his welcome address Girish noted that the major objective of the award is to extol the exemplary accomplishments of children who have against all odds exhibited extraordinary acts of bravery, by identifying, recognizing and celebrating them publicly whilst announcing their readiness to invest more in the initiative as it is also one of the ways to invest in the Nigerian child. Also speaking at the event, the Group Public Relations and Events Manager, Dufil Prima Foods Plc, Tope Ashiwaju stated that the last 11 editions of the awards have been tremendous as they attracted commendations to the brand and the company by well-meaning individuals, captains of industries and corporate organizations. Commenting on the award categories, Ashiwaju revealed that the award is divided into the Physical, Social and Intellectual bravery categories. “As a national event, the award is expected to draw participants from all the six geo-political zones in the country in October.” The 2018 edition of IIDA produced Victor Olayiwola, a 15-year-old boy from Lagos whose story of heroism evoked emotions was adjudged the winner of the Physical Bravery category for saving his mother from a car accident, which later resulted to his left leg being amputated. Nine-year-old Master David Nengi Ayomide Pepple from Port Harcourt won the Social Bravery category for using his art talent to seek financial assistance for the treatment of his younger brother who had been diagnosed with cerebral palsy and Master Elijah Ephraim Umanah, a 13-year-old senior secondary student of Centenary Staff College in Uyo who won the Intellectual Bravery category for creating reading glasses with an inbuilt torchlight, solar panel and universal serial bus (USB) ports. IIDA is a national award event that commends the exemplary accomplishments of children who have shown courage and determination in situations that ordinarily would bring fear. The award also encourages excellence, rewards merit and stirs in other children the act of bravery.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .