Despite a Kano State high court order restraining the state government from inaugurating the newly appointed Emirs,  Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje has vowed to install the new first class emirs. Besides, Ganduje revealed that the new Emirs had received and acknowledged their letters of appointment saying the inauguration planned to hold today was only a symbolic ceremony. Justice Nasiru Saminu of Kano state high Friday ordered the state government to refrain from appointing and swearing any new emirate until the hearing and determination of a motion on notice. In an application filed by one Rabiu Salihu Garwzo against six defendants including Governor of Kano state, Speaker of Kano state house of assembly, Clerk of Assembly, Attorney general of Kano state and Kano printer, the court directed all parties to maintain status quo until the matter is determined. However, Governor Ganduje insisted he was not aware of any court order restraining him from further action concerning the newly appointed First Class Emirs. The Guardian obtained a Letters of the Notification Appointment signed by the secretary to the state government Alhaji Usman Alhaji and dated 9th of May, indicated an offer of appointment confirming the new emirate heads as first-class emirs. The letter reads in part: “In accordance with the power conferred on the Governor by the Kano State Emirs (Appointment and Deposition) Amended Law 2019 (1440 AH) which provides the creation of more Emirates, I wish to convey the approval of  His Excellency, the Executive Governor of Kano State, Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje OFR for your appointment as First Class Emir of (Bichi) (Karaye) (Rano) (Gaya) Emirate.” “While the court order pronouncement started after 5 pm on Friday 10th May 2019, all the Emirs returned back their acceptance from 10 am to 12 noon, same day,” Abba Anwar, chief press secretary to Ganduje said in a statement. “The new Emir of Karaye, Alhaji Dr Ibrahim Abubakar II signed his acceptance by 12 noon, Emir of Rano Alhaji Tafida Abubakar Ila, signed his acceptance by 10:15 am, Emir of Bichi,  Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero, signed his acceptance by 10am and the Emir of Gaya, Alhaji Ibrahim Abdulkadir, signed his letter by 10:30am. “Today’s event, Saturday 11th May, 2019, planning to take place at Sani Abacha Indoor Stadium, Kofar Mata, was just organised to have a symbolic presentation of Notification of Appointment Letters.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .