Llyod George In all ages, we human beings have always desired that goodness be done unto us. We long for it. We seek it. When we are beneficiaries of the act of goodness, we know joy, sometimes immeasurable joy, depending on our capacity to absorb the rays emanating from the goodness. An act of goodness could be life-long, and some may say, everlasting, in its effect. It rings deep down every human being. For this reason, it is said everyone feels goodness to his fingertips. If we reflect deeply on goodness, several questions run through our minds. What is goodness? From where does it spring and flow? In other words what is its origin? Are there people who are lacking in capacity to do good? The issue of goodness is what thinkers and philosophers have grappled with for centuries. Could they have turned their gaze away when being hit by waves of acts of age-long man’s inhumanity to man? A great many cannot forget easily the reign of terror in the days of Nero. In his book, Many Mansions, Gina Cerminara recounts the experience of a man who suffered from unceasing severe pains in his hip. The man went from doctor to doctor and from one specialist to another in search of healing, but all his efforts were unavailing. Eventually, the famous American seer, Edgar Cayce, was contacted for help. According to Cerminara, Cayce looking into the man’s past earth life, found that he lived in Roman times and he was a spectator in the public arena during which human beings were thrown to lions. As a watcher of the horrifying spectacle, he not only rejoiced, but cheered and clapped, applauding what he was seeing! As historians are quick to remind us, Rome was at the zenith of its power for 500 years. The sufferer in a later re-incarnation had to experience what those thrown to the lions at the Roman public square went through before their gruesome death. It is a case that was similar to those of stigmatics who lived in Israel and were present at the crucifixion of the Lord Christ. As evil is rippling out with uncanny rapidity and engulfing our world and turning it upside down in these times, not a few are doubting the existence of goodness. Out of confusion, they conclude that goodness is relative; there is no absolute goodness, the same is said about truth. Because what is seen and felt is the festering evil or threat of its rampage, they see goodness as existing only in infantile imagination, evidence that we have moved far away from the days of yore when great philosophers, Socrates, Mencius and Jean-Jacques Rousseau proclaimed that man is born inherently good. If evil is on the rampage, it must then mean something has happened to man. Indeed, Rousseau and Mencius advanced the argument, saying that human beings get corrupted by societal pressure. Mencius went on to say that we recover that goodness as we acquire more knowledge about ourselves. The search for goodness and knowledge of goodness is certainly not going to abate in the face of escalating wrongdoing. It will, indeed, be intensified in these times of perplexities. It becomes clear from day to day that there was more in what Socrates sought to state than he actually explored when he said: “The only good is knowledge, and the only evil is ignorance.” His profound statement would appear to be hinting at the fact that if the perpetrators were to have knowledge of the consequences of evil on themselves, if not now, unfailingly in life after life and in the next earthlife, they would remain distant from it. There is something to say about the mere presence of a man who has made goodness a cause to strive for. An act of goodness disarms, it uplifts and rolls back fond memories. Follow me, if you will, in the story of a one-time British Prime Minister sent to my post. It is a moving story of a surprising encounter which brought sweet memories to both the doer and the recipient of an act of goodness. Captioned “The Head Doctor”, the story runs as follows: “In England in 1920, there was a graduation ceremony for a batch of new doctors. It was attended by the British Prime Minister of that time. During the ceremony, the head doctor who was in charge of that batch, gave the necessary advice to these new graduates. He told them the following incident which happened around him sometime back: “It was after midnight, and I heard a knock on my door. It was an old lady, and she said to me: ‘O my doctor, my child is sick and in a very serious condition, so please do something to save him.’ “I rushed out to follow her to her house without worrying what will happen. Because it was a stormy night, and very cold. The rain was pouring down very heavily. I did not fear for my life. Her house was on the outskirts of London, and after a difficult journey, we reached her house. She lived in a small room with her son at the corner of this room groaning and deeply in pain. “After I did my duty towards the sick child, the mother gave me a small bag with money. I refused to take this bag and I told her gently that I can’t accept that payment, because I felt sorry for their situation. Then I promised her that I will take care of her child until he gets better.”
The head doctor continued his speech by saying: “This is the true profession of medicine, and being a doctor is closest to mercy and one of the closest to God.” As soon as the head doctor finished his speech, the prime minister jumped out of his seat and headed to the podium. “Permit me, Sir, to kiss your hand. For 20 years now, I have been looking for you. I am the child you mentioned in your story just now. Oh, my mother will be happy now and she will be at peace in the Beyond. Her only wish was for me to find you and to reward you, for that goodness you did for us at the time we were living in poverty. “ “The poor child who became the Prime Minister of Britain was Lloyd George.”’ The post to me concludes the story with the following admonition: “Plant goodness wherever you go, even if it is not in your place. It will never get lost wherever you plant it…Remember, the only reward for good is goodness no matter how long it takes.”’ It is saying the obvious that the story fascinates me no end, regaled as it were by enrapturing exposition of the accruals from an act of goodness. The measure of our goodness is determined by our compliance with the Laws of Creation, the eternal principles which manifest as the Laws of Nature. Their foundation lies in their being the expression of the Will of the Creator. Goodness is, therefore, an expression of man’s inner capacity to absorb the consequences of acts of love. As the Laws of Nature bear nothing but love, and energy tonic for development, it should follow that goodness and love are inseparable. A man cannot be lacking in love and be an agent of goodness. In higher knowledge spreading in these times, it is revealed that love is God’s greatest gift to man. This is saying, in other words, that He gives Himself to mankind in love and goodness—through the outworking of His Laws, the Divine Laws, the Laws of Nature, His Will. As Creation and by extension, all men being His creation out of His Will, it follows that goodness is inherent in all human beings. The goodness becomes smeared and narrowed, if not beclouded, through wrongdoing, which the philosophers believed caused man to acquire bad moral character. They were only partially correct. Every human being is equipped to stand alone, and firmly too, not to allow himself to be sucked in by societal influence. Wrongdoing which may be called bad moral character has come about through the wrong use of our free will. It is the freedom of choice, to do good or not to do good, to choose what is bad and disagreeable to the Laws of Nature. Whatever is the choice, there are corresponding radiations to reinforce it and bring consequences. No wonder, Aristotle said we are what we repeatedly do. The good man becomes better and the bad man gets worse, sullen, cold and evil. The laws in their expression makes awesome recognition of God possible, as well as of the Truth. They are perfect, eternal, automatic in their outworking and therefore inexorable. They are incorruptible. They are consistent and immutable. Because all these attributes of the Laws cannot be found in man because he is imperfect, they can only be found in the Power of the Most High, beyond the calculation and craftiness of human beings. They are the reason truth is universal, eternal and goodness as its product, universal, too. It is available throughout the world and in the Beyond. Genuine goodness as an expression of joy, love and compassion which again flows out of love, gives to its purveyor unquantifiable joy. He is driven by the strong intention of giving joy to others. He is filled with compassion. In other words, everyone is capable of doing good genuinely. False, calculated goodness aimed only at public acknowledgement, self-praise and obligatory thankfulness attracts no blessings. It is as worse as intentionally doing harm to fellow men. Those who get involved in bloodletting and their cheer orchestra may not even have at their disposal the help of Edgar Cayce in their hour of greatest need in the near future. We are in the End-Time and all human beings will be dragged through the millstone of purification in the Judgment of God. The question is being asked of all us now than ever before: “Man, how do you stand?”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .