President Muhammadu Buhari signing the Oath of Office with Chief Justice of Nigeria, Tanko Muhammad. Photo: Twitter/VON Muhammadu Buhari was inaugurated into the office at the Eagle Square in Abuja as the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria for a second term on Wednesday morning. He was sworn in by the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Tanko Muhammad. However, the President didn’t give an inaugural address at the inaugural ceremony which kept to time and ended 11:22 am. The Federal Government had announced that the inauguration would be low-key with most of the events to be held on June 12, the Democracy Day. ”Since the first observance of June 12 as Democracy Day falls into an election year, and as a measure to sustain June 12 as Democracy Day, the celebration of the inauguration and the advancement of democracy in the country will now take place on June 12,” minister of information, Lai Mohammed had said. President Buhari didn’t make any statement after he took his oath of office Professor Akin Oyebode, on Channels TV’s inauguration day broadcast, said it was a missed opportunity to talk about the need to change the architecture of security and plans for the next for years. “It is an opportunity missed when the focus of the nation was on the new tenure of the president,” Pro. Oyebode said. “At least, some soothing balm ought to have been administered on Nigerians to give them some impression of hope and optimism. What will he have lost by making, however brief, a statement on what Nigerians can expect in the next four years.” Dr Amos Akingba, a chieftain of NADECO, argued that the ceremonial event on June 12 is entirely different from the inauguration day. “I’m not even sure that there will be a speech on June 12. You’re taking an oath of office to serve the people, you tell them what you want to do. June 12 is a celebration of a missed opportunity that’s a different thing. “June 12 is different from the time you take the oath of office when you should promise the people, tell the people, inform the people what you want to do. You don’t have to wait till June 12. June 12 is just a recent approval. Today is the day you took an oath of office, you’re inaugurated. Let us know what your agenda will be.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .