 [FILE PHOTO] A man in handcuffs  A 28-year-old man, Oni Olohunwa has been arrested by men of the Ogun State police command for stabbing his friend, Baraka Taiwo, to death, during an argument. A statement by the command’s spokesman, Abimbola Oyeyemi, yesterday explained that the deceased and the suspect who were close friends attended a party. “In the course of the party, the deceased was said to have got drunk and started misbehaving and while the suspect was trying to caution him, an argument ensued. “The suspect later brought out a knife and stabbed him (victim) and was immediately rushed to the hospital where he died. The suspect has been charged with homicide.” Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police, Bashir Makama, has ordered the immediate transfer of the suspect to the homicide section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for further investigation and prosecution. In another development, a soldier, Private Akhigbe Tijjani, was yesterday paraded by the police in Yobe State. Tijjani was accused of raping a young girl in front of her parents in Buni Yadi, Yobe. Tijjani was also said to have forced the girl’s brother to have sex with one of his siblings. He bashed the boy’s head with a pestle when he refused to be forced to commit the incest. Tijjani, attached to 27 Taskforce Brigade was on a cordon-and-search operation when he entered the girl’s home and allegedly raped her in front of her family. Spokesperson of the police in the state, ASP Abdulmalik Abdulhafiz, said Tijjani forced the girl’s brother to have sex with his sister. “When the boy refused, Tijjani used a pestle and hit him in the head,” Abdulhafiz said. Tijjani was reported to the military by a colleague on the cordon-and-search operation prompting his court-martial and dismissal. Also yesterday, gunmen shot dead a man simply identified as Alhaji after robbing him of the sum of N700,000 along PTI road in Effurun, Uvwie Local Government Area of Delta State. The deceased had made some financial transactions at a new generation bank where the gunmen accosted him. The gunmen had trailed and robbed the victim of the said sum after he left the bank at Jakpa Road. It was gathered that the victim was shot dead by the gunmen for daring to scare his attackers with a dagger. When contacted, the Delta State Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Onome Onovwakpoyeya, confirmed the report. Meanwhile, the South-West Zonal Coordinator, National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), Lucas Koyejo, has said lack of knowledge for human right is fueling the rise of extrajudicial killings and harassment of citizens by law enforcement officers in Nigeria. He said this is because the security officers are not well trained on their roles in upholding human rights, which is why they violate the rights of citizens. Lucas stated this yesterday during a sensitisation and training workshop for officers of the Lagos State Neighborhood Safety Corps, organised by the Nigeria Policing Programme (NPP) in partnership with the NHRC and state government. He said security operatives should undergo training and retraining to ensure they are kept abreast with their roles and the essence of their jobs in respecting people’s right. Also speaking, the chairman, Lagos Neighborhood Safety Corp, DIG Israel Ajao (rtd), said policing is very complex, which requires training for the safety and maintenance of law and order in all the neighborhoods across Lagos State as well as respect human rights. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .