2019 presidential candidate of the African Action Congress and chairman of the political party, Omoyele Sowore, has denied being suspended as the chairman of the party. He, in turn, suspended Leonard Nzenwa sworn-in by his party as the acting national chairman. Sowore claimed the rumours were simply a distraction from the Central Bank scandal. ““Sowore suspended from @aacparty as Chairman” kindly ignore but don’t forget that they needed some distraction from the @cenbank N500billion scandal,” Sowore tweeted on Monday The National Executive Council of the AAC announced on Monday announced the suspension of the Sowore as the chairman for alleged anti-party activities, failure to convene NEC meeting and financial misappropriation. The party claimed that Sowore together with eight others contravened Section 225 (3)(4) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) by allowing the inflow of illegal foreign funds into the party and personally retaining the funds. The council also stated that the suspension of Sowore and other members of his executive took effect from March 27 and will last for six months except overturned by a National Convention of the party. A new acting national chairman, Leonard Nzenwa, was immediately sworn-in. But in a swift rebuttal, Sowore, in a statement signed as the National Chairman of the AAC, announced the expulsion of Nzenwa and suspension of other individuals for financial impropiety and anti-party activities. “It has come to the notice of the office of the Chairman of the African Action Congress that a group of suspended members, induced by financial reasons and anti-progressive politics, gathered in Abuja today, 13th May, 2019, and purportedly held a NEC meeting,” Sowore said.
⠀
“These members, led by Leonard Nzenwa, former national secretary, who was suspended for financial impropriety and anti-party activities, have demonstrated by their actions that they have never been, and have never shared, the core beliefs that those of us in the African Action Congress hold.”⠀
⠀
Sowore said while Nzenwa is expelled from the party, those who participated in the Abuja meeting are suspended from the party until investigations reveal the extent of their involvement.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .