The Lagos State Sports Trust Fund, put in place by Governor Akinwunmi Ambode to drive the state’s quest for excellence in sports administration and development, is set to commence full operations. The Sports Trust Fund, headed by former Lagos State Deputy Governor, Otunba Femi Pedro, has other seasoned sports administrators, including the Chairman of Lagos Sports Commission, Dr. Kweku Tandoh and former Sports Commissioner, Dr. Enitan Oshodi, as members. Speaking at a ceremony in Lagos yesterday, the chairman of the Sports Trust Fund, Pedro said the body had painstakingly embarked on a strategic exercise to craft its vision, mission and core values in the last few months. “This Sports Trust Fund is the first of its kind in sub-Sahara Africa. It is therefore imperative that we build a solid foundation for its existence,” he stated. Pedro revealed that the body would develop its fund raising and communication strategies, as well as establish its corporate governance principles, organization structure and operating model. “We have also developed our blueprints for sports development in the state. We are created primarily to play a crucial role in financing the development and promotion of sports, sporting activities and facilities in the state. “Lagos State appreciates the relative importance of sports in wealth creation, job creation, and general economic development.” Pedro listed the core values of the Lagos State Sports Trust Fund to be: Trust, Innovation, Accountability, Resourcefulness, Excellence, Integrity and Inclusiveness. He said the central core of their business was fund raising for sports development, using the Public Private Partnership (PPP) model, adding that the immediate target was to take over the Rowe Park Sports Centre, which according to him, had degenerated over the years. “We will rebuild the swimming pool, table tennis, lawn tennis courts, boxing arena and other sectors of Rowe Park so that it will be a better place for the younger ones to polish their sports potentials. We are also looking at building new facilities in six locations across the state. “We are therefore set to collaborate with the private sector in general, non-profit organisations, sports equipment manufacturers, sports betting companies, donor agencies, high networth individuals, and high profile elite athletes in form of cash and grant, donation of sports facilities and equipment,” Pedro stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .