The Nigerian men’s team has qualified for the 2019 African Games volleyball event. Nigeria’s senior men’s volleyball team has qualified for the 2019 African Games billed for Morocco later this year. Team Nigeria beat Burkina Faso 3-0 (25-15, 25-22, 25-15) to secure the sole ticket at the Zone Three African qualifiers, which took place in Abidjan, Cote d’Ivoire. The countries that participated in the qualifiers are Burkina Faso, Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana and Niger Republic. According to the team’s head coach, Japheth Nuhu, the victory was a result of the determination of the players, as well as the support from the volleyball federation led by Musa Nimrod. He said the boys knew what was at stake and could not disappoint Nigerians eager to watch the team at the AAG. The Niger Brass Volleyball Club coach noted that getting the AAG ticket means that volleyball is growing in the country. “I am glad this team has qualified for the 2019 All Africa Games in Morocco. It could have been disastrous if we did not qualify because the board, led by Musa Nimrod, has invested so much in the team. “Before the boys went to the court, I told them the volleyball family was expecting good news and we could not afford to disappoint them. This is a new beginning for volleyball in Nigeria,” he said Also speaking on the ticket, team captain, Daniel Nathaniel said, “this is a dream come true for me because I will be leading Nigeria to the All Africa Games as a captain. We promise not to lower the standard of our game when we get to the 2019 All Africa Games in Morocco,” he said. Meanwhile, the Nigeria Volleyball Federation President, Nimrod has commended the players for their feat. He, however, urged the players to keep making the country proud in whatever capacity they find themselves in their career. “It is a great pleasure that Nigeria will be in Morocco for the All Africa Games. I am excited that these new set of players are performing beyond expectations and the board promises to support them ahead of the games,” Nimrod said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .