Imo State governor, Rochas Okorocha, has accused Adams Oshiomhole of hunting him after he ensured his emergence as chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). “There is nothing personal between me and Adams Oshiomhole other than the fact that he is part and parcel of this high level of conspiracy to bring down Rochas politically,” Okorocha said at a news conference in Abuja. “What is painful is that Adam Oshiomhole that I literarily put into this position.” Okorocha’s grievance with the leadership of the ruling party started in the build-up to the last general election when his anointed candidate Uche Nwosu lost the Imo State governorship candidate ticket to Senator Hope Uzodinma. Unsatisfied with the party’s candidacy, Okorocha campaigned for Nwosu who defected to Action Alliance (AA) to emerge governor but lost. Okorocha, on the hand, contested the Imo West Senatorial District election on February 23 and was declared the winner of the election. But the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) refused to acknowledge his victory because the returning officer Innocent Ibeabuchi said he announced the result of the election under duress. However, Okorocha believes that INEC’s denial to issue him a certificate of return as an elected senator is being orchestrated by some party bigwigs who want to reduce his political influence. “I never asked him (Oshiomhole) to do me any favour, all I requested was for him to do what is right. The fact that he would turn around to do this evil is totally unacceptable,” Okorocha said. “I believe the INEC chairman is up to a game with the chairman of the APC, who is being used to frustrate my coming to the Senate, and this is politically motivated.” Okorocha, a former member of the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) said his current ordeal made him join the APC to take power in 2015. “That the party that I formed, that brought out the APC we have today, and the party treated me in this manner is rather unfortunate. The evil I feared in the PDP has befallen me 10 times in the APC.” “I hate injustice,” Okorocha said. The governor, who described the delay in the issuance of his certificate of return as injustice, said the claim of the returning officer announcing his result under duress were ‘no issues’ but just accusations. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .