Fear struck a community in Ekiti State at the weekend when a middle-aged radio electrician, Mr. Sunday Oni, popularly known as Sunne, was found dead inside a drainage at Oke-Osun. It was gathered that Oni was an ardent drunkard who closes at work by 6:00p.m. then resumes at different bar joint of his choice within the town. Sunday has severally been advised to desist from drinking to stupor and turn a new leaf but never heeded to it. Taye Oni, a student and daughter of the deceased, said: “I grew up knowing that my father was a drunkard and his habitual drinking has brought shame to the family. Sometimes, he follows his allies to Ado-Ekiti and coming home, we might have to pick him by the roadside or inside the gutter. ‘’If my father gets lucky, a good Samaritan might help him to reach the house and the day we are not lucky, we will be called by neighbours to come and pick him by the roadside. Sometimes we pick him up at the bar and many times, he lands in the hospital with bruises all over his body. I can’t count how many phones my father has lost on several occasions and by the next day; he will ask for his phone or money. Sometimes he fights us to no avail. This has become his life-style and we have done all spiritually to spare his life. “Last weekend took a different route as we anticipated his coming home drunk by 9:00p.m. but we did not see him and nobody has come to beckon on us to come and pick our father. My mother and siblings were worried while we dialled his number but it was switched off. We left the house and started calling some of his allies. We were told he left the bar at 8:00p.m. and the search began. “We had visited all the bars in Ikere and Ado-Ekiti.  We became restless then some neighbours rushed to the house that our father has been found lying dead inside the gutter very close to our house and his private part has been cut off. We ran to the scene and we were shocked to the reality of the ordeal. Our father is gone,’’ she said. Kehinde Oni, also a student and son of the deceased said he is shocked at the incident. He believed his father must have been drunk and got into the hands of the abductors. “I am sure my father’s life was cut-off by those who know him too well at the bar. I might not be able to point accusing finger at anybody, but his death came from those who have studied him to know his route. We searched and searched for him all night only to see his body the next day close to the house.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .