Governor Ambode. Photo: Twitter/AkinwunmiAmbode The Odu’a Investment Company Limited, Monday, has said the entrance of Lagos into the Group, will engender a positive impact on the socio-economic development and advancement of the South West geo-political zone based on its commercial enterprise and uncommon resilience and resourcefulness. The Group lauded Governor Akinwunmi Ambode for actualising Lagos membership of Odu’a , through the signing of the Share Purchase Agreement (SPA) in March 2018, saying it was indeed a soothing reunion with the other five South West states, which would have significant economic benefits for the region on the long run. A Director, Odu’a Investment Company, Tajudeen Bello, on behalf of the Chairman, at a courtesy visit to Ambode at the Lagos House in Alausa, Ikeja, said the team came to thank him for the courageous partnership. He said: “It is our cherished desire and commitment in Odu’a Investment that this membership will unleash a geometric impact on the socio-economic development of our geo-political zone, as a result of the mutual benefits arising from the synergy.” He equally commended the Governor for his landmark achievements, adding that the Group will continue to explore other collaboration opportunities, including the Lagos State Embedded Power Supply Act, structured to guarantee 24-hour power supply for the State, the Rice Mill at Imota and a host of others. Bello, who later presented the State’s Share Certificate to Ambode, said the Group expressed confidence that the six states in the region will leverage its comparative advantages and work together for the betterment and development of the entire region and its people. Responding Ambode said his belief in the total economic integration of the South West and the need to harness the comparative advantages spurred him to make the state a partner in the Oodua Investment Group. “We are very proud that it is the only regional investment group that exists in this country right now. I am very happy that I was able to do this at least to lay the foundation and the framework that would allow a bigger economic integration to take place even with the kind of infrastructure that we have tried to put in place,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .