 AFCON CUP  Nigeria’s Super Eagles are vying for its fourth title at the competition, which the NTA will broadcast on terrestrial television channels across Nigeria.Apart from the African Nations Cup, the NTA/HotSports marketing partnership will also deliver to Nigerians the U23 Africa Cup of Nations (the 2020 Olympics soccer qualifiers that will be hosted by Egypt in November, this year), Africa Women Cup of Nations (Congo Brazzaville 2020), U20 Africa Cup of Nations in 2021 in Mauritania, the U17 Africa Cup of Nations in Morocco also in 2021 and CAF SuperCup 2020. Speaking at the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between NTA and HotSports in Abuja, NTA Director General, Yakubu Ibn Mohammed assured that the outfit would deploy its immense experience in the coverage and broadcast of international sports competitions to AFCON 2019 and the other tournaments in view, adding that it is determined to deliver exciting moments for Nigerian sports fans through the partnership with HotSports. He added: “NTA has always been known to be the front runner when it comes to the coverage of international sporting activities. NTA has covered various World Cups and has been involved in the coverage of Olympic Games, African Cup of Nations, and age-grade competitions. This management of NTA is determined to bring back the good old days because NTA pioneered sportscasting in this country and we should always be in the lead.” Also speaking at the event, the President/CEO of HotSports Media Group, Taye Ige assured the NTA that the confidence it has on Hotsports would not be taken for granted, assuring that the partnership would deliver results that all the partners and the viewing public would be delighted about. “We went into this partnership with Africa’s largest television network to make these tournaments a very memorable viewing experience for Nigerians comparable to what they find in other networks both in and outside Nigeria,” Ige said. He assured of several value-added ideas, including live broadcast of the Super Eagles’ activities in AFCON 2019 and opportunities for fans to win prizes. “We intend, for instance, in conjunction with NTA production department, to be on ground in Egypt, especially in Alexandra where Nigeria’s first three games will happen. I can even say first four games because definitely, we will qualify from our group. We will be there on ground giving live reports to Nigerians, pre-match, during the match and post-match at prime time. Beyond these as well, there will be opportunities for a lot of freebies to be won by Nigerians just for keeping faith with NTA and viewing the matches on NTA.” This year’s edition of the Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt is expected to catch the attention of billions of TV viewers in the continent and across the world with HotSports bringing all the 52 matches from the group stage all through to the showpiece final to the fans in their homes, viewing centres and other relaxation sports. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .