 Nigeria coach Gernot Rohr before the match    REUTERS/Toru Hanai  The Franco-German promised to “keep an eye on how the boys progress in the coming years and hopefully give them a chance with the national youth teams.” Rohr, who was physically present during the tournament, which ended last week at the Allianz Arena, Munich Germany, home of FC Bayern Munich, motivated the Nigerian players with useful insights on the round leather game. According to Team Nigeria Manager, and VOE Foundation representative, Mr. Victor Obinna Edeh, the Super Eagles Chief Coach “was also on ground to support the team at the world finals, with Team Nigeria grabbing two quick fire goals on his arrival at the Allianz Arena.” Edeh said Rohr described “competitions like this are very welcome and encouraging because it gives young Nigerians a chance to compete at the highest level and experience playing at a special place like the Allianz Arena. I started my professional career in this city and the boys can be proud of their performance at the world finals.”Edeh stressed that the 2019 edition of FC Bayern Youth Cup World Finals saw players representing seven different countries light up Munich between May 16 and 20. Speaking about the project and partnership with FC Bayern Munich, Edeh said: “ I am happy to be here with Team Nigeria for the second year. The experience is an unforgettable one for the players who were spellbound watching Thiago, Robben and their favourite Bayern stars live. “Our partnership with Bayern for the youth cup project has been very fruitful, reaching nearly 2000 players in the first two years, we now have a pool of players who have a chance of representing Nigeria internationally. “Nearly 3000 fans were at the world finals today with the Nigerian delegation in Munich promising to come out in numbers for the next edition, special thanks goes to Gernot Rohr, who was with us in Lagos for the National Finals and also here for two days at the world finals in Munich, your presence was very encouraging and meant the whole world to not only the Nigerian players but also to participants from the other countries.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .