 [FILES] FCT, Abuja  Minister of the FCT, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello, while addressing the participants at the three-day training workshop at the Abuja Municipal Area Council Town Hall, urged the traditional and community leaders to continue to discharge their responsibilities effectively. Bello also admonished them to make good use of the ADR in resolving problems with their neighbours. According to him, the ADR method was cost-effective, takes a shorter time for justice dispensation and resolves disputes amicably without denting relationship between or among those involved. The minister, represented by the Secretary, FCT Area Council Services Secretariat, Senator Isa Maina, recalled that for long, it had been the role of traditional rulers in solving conflicts. According to him, the workshop, which was done in partnership with Green Horizon Law and Development Consultants, would enhance capability of the traditional rulers in discharging their responsibilities effectively as well as resolve conflicts without the parties going to court. He regretted that things are no more done like in the past where a stranger has to report self to the ward, village or district head for people to know who he or she is but it is for record and safety purposes. He said: “This workshop, I know, will go a long way to ease and guide you in solving most of the conflicts be it family or land issue. We are also exploring the same mechanism (ADR) at the FCTA on land issues as we now usually bring the factions together, sit with them and amicably resolve conflicts with one another without spending a kobo.” While calling on the participants, especially the ward heads, to pay special attention throughout the training, Bello warned the monarchs against collecting money from the people in resolving conflicts. However, the Director of Training, Green Horizon, Ibrahim Naiya Sada, who noted that the workshop could not have come at a better time as participants are assured of learning new methods of conflict resolution, said the training would also open new window for them towards peaceful co-existence with their subjects. Also, His Royal Highness, Sarkin of Karu, Emmanuel Kyauta Yepwy, who spoke on behalf of others, representing Sarkin Jiwa, Alhaji Idris Musa, said the programme would assist the leaders in solving many challenges in their domains across the territory. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .