 [FILE] Nigerian president Muhammadu Buhari  The order’s Grand Administrator, Dr Kenneth Idiodi, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos that Nigerians’ expectations from the President’s next administration were high. He said that Nigerians were desirous of good developments, stoppage of insurgency and armed banditry. Idiodi said that the president, in line with his promises and assurances during his electioneering, had all it takes to confront the security challenges facing the country. According to him, his performance in his first administration was below Nigerians’ expectation.“We want Mr President to prioritise solving insecurity, unemployment, as well work to improve electricity and infrastructural development so that the country can attract the right investors.“This is a second chance to make Nigerians smile; electricity is needed mostly for any business to thrive. “Without electricity, all efforts chanelled toward establishing industries and solving unemployment will be futile.’’He alleged that some investors had relocated to countries like Ghana where there was a greater guarantee of electricity.“To woo the right kind of international investors, huge infrastructural development must be put in place. “There must be stable power supply and the government must provide security for the lives and properties of its citizens.“We want Mr President to put an end to all forms of banditry, kidnappings, violence, terrorism and insurgency,” he said. Idiodi said that due to these problems, most Nigerian youths kept being tempted to leave the country while some others were engaging in different forms of atrocious acts. He said, “Before now, university graduates were immediately absorbed into the civil service after their academics, we had little complaints about crime rate then. “The youth are supposed to be creatively engaged to kill their thirst of wanting to travel out in search of greener pastures or embracing frivolous activities.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .