The people of Wudil Community in Wudil local government of Kano state have dissociated themselves from the realignment of the traditional emirate councils, insisted to remain with the old order. The community while expressing dissatisfaction over the new appointment and deposition laws which ceded the community under Gaya emirate councils, maintained that Wudil will rather remain independent than to abuse their decades of traditional heritage. In the new order gazetted in the amended law, Wudil community was balkanized from Emir Sanusi Lamido Sanusi’s Kano emirate and ceded to the newly inaugurated Gaya emirate council. In a release signed by the chairman of Wudil Joint Stakeholders Forum, Yalwa Mohammad Idris, the community appealed to Kano state government to revert the new arrangement and restore their traditional homage to Kano emirate. Yalwa argued that Gaya emirate council has no historical antecedent to the people of Wudil communities, saying cutting away Wudil from Kano will unnecessary distort the traditional identity and rewrite written history of the ancient town. The leader of the Wudil native worried over the hasten action with which no due consultation was considered before the action. Read More: I am not against Sanusi – Ganduje According to him, ” For God sake, why would the government demean us and instead of merging us with the Kano Emirate where our traditional historical relations emanated, merging us with Gaya. We the good people of Gaya say no to this new arrangement and we would not accept this. “We can tell you journalists to find out. Neither was our state Assembly nor our National Assembly representatives consulted before this action was taken.” The group vowed to take necessary legal means to ensure that the interest of the Wudil community people is not trampled upon urged the community to remain calm and resist temptation to take laws into their hands. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .