 Minister of Information, Lai Mohammed.  The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed said this on Saturday at the 2019 edition of his annual Ramadan lecture held at his home town, Oro, Kwara State. The News Agency of Nigeria reports the 12th edition of the Ramadan lecture was attended by Governor Abubakar Bagudu of Kebbi State, Minister of Communication, Adebayo Shittu, political stalwarts, traditional rulers, clergymen among others. “As you are aware, a few days ago we raised the alarm that either by themselves or via their proxies, the PDP and its presidential candidate are doing everything possible to sabotage the Buhari Administration. “Our interventions are based on credible evidence, and no government with the kind of evidence that we have, of plans to subvert the power of the state, attack the nation’s economic live wire and generally unleash mayhem on the polity, will keep quiet. “The security agencies are all alert to their responsibilities and will not sit by and allow anyone to reverse the gains of our democracy under any guise,” he said. The minister noted that similar alarms had been raised by the police, the military and the Department of State Services. He said the government will neither be distracted nor dissuaded by pseudo and partisan analysts that have teamed up with the opposition to “either exhibit their ignorance or to engage in red herring and name-calling”. The minister called on Nigerians to use the occasion of the Ramadan to pray for peace, unity and stability in the country. “I make this request against the background of those who are daily plotting to exploit our national fault lines of religion and ethnicity. “Those who masquerade as democrats but can’t take electoral defeat, those who will not hesitate to collude with anti-democratic forces and dead-enders to fan the embers of violence in the country “Those who have elevated their personal ambition over and above our survival as a nation,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .