 [File] Director, Climate Change Department, Federal Ministry of Environment, Dr. Peter Tarfa  Under the agreement, the government would be able to gain the capabilities to measure and analyse environmental outcomes on equal footing with any participant in carbon economy and management in the subregion. Speaking at joint workshop in Abuja, Director, Department of Climate Change, Dr. Peter Tarfa said the government brought the software provider to brainstorm on application  how it would be used in ministries, department and agencies. According to Tarfa, currently, there are reviews going on how to calculate emissions, the methods involved, adding, this will not be another ‘white elephant project of government, but to make it applicable to all sectors of the economy. Earlier, Managing Director of GEObjects, Mark Wood, said the technologies exceed what is obtainable in most advanced governments, adding that Nigeria was the perfect sponsor to drive the change in the world. Mark also noted that the workshop would focus on developing and refining pathways for advancement of country’s position going into next phase of environmental economy through the use of the software. He however, explained that the burden of cost of environmental management might be revisited as a way to produce wealth, enrich the people, create social opportunities as well as invigorate Nigerian economy. Another speaker, David MclLwraith argued that one of the most interesting thing was to bring sophisticated environmental analytics software to every one who needs to use it, ‘the key product is Sphere.’ Explaining further, David maintained that they recognised the expertise of government and agencies  and seek to provide a tool to enhance the capability assets. he said that they are ready to train software developers, scientists, and operators technicians. “We supply and provide environmental analysis software, which is a carbon simulator and system. We also want to establish Nigerian participation in global carbon economy generates revenue, secures her place in pro-carbon age.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .