 [FILES] Rape  According to one of the chieftains of the area who spoke to The Guardian under condition of anonymity, the incident took place last Thursday at Umunnem village. “The said Nwankwo, who hails from Umuokpa Elu Elu village, a neighbouring village with the girl, met the girl playing with her mates and lured her into a nearby bush to perpetrate the act. “After the act, Nwankwo, a retired Nigerian Airways worker, widower and father of four, deserted the community when the girl, a primary four pupil, reported the incident to her mother. “After efforts by the community leaders to get the alleged rapist to prove his innocence yielded no result, the girl’s mother, a petty trader at Orie Umulogho Market, reported the matter to the police, at Otoko Police Division.” The source also disclosed that the community are still searching for the man and would stop at nothing in ensuring that justice prevails in the matter. “We were told that Charles was going to a burial at Umunnem village when he saw the small girl playing with her mates along Umunnem road. He approached the girl and started praising her that he knew when she was too small but has grown as a woman and she is beautiful now. “Thereafter, he asked the girl to lead him somewhere and the girl innocently followed him but on the way, he dragged the girl inside the bush, stripped her naked and raped her. The girl after that, with the pool of her blood, rushed to where her mother was trading at Orie Umulogho Market and told her what happened. It was the mother that then told us and after everything, we enjoined her to take the matter to the police. “Indeed, the incident has brought shame to every member of our community. It is sacrilegious and something no right thinking person can condole,” he added. When contacted, the state command Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Orlando Ikeokwu, said he is yet to be fully briefed on the matter. He, however, promised to relay relevant information and update about the incident in the earliest possible time. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .