 Unveiling Akinsanya Damilare Akolade as King Models on the Island Africa and Abasiodiong Udoh Christopher as Queen Models on the Island Africa.  Conceived five years ago, the promoters said the project, which is one of the initiatives of the firm, aims at giving models the prestige they deserve, adding that they are in the sector to bring new ideas, as well as help solve some challenges facing practitioners. Speaking at the unveiling in Ikeja, Lagos, Emmanuel Etim said, “We ran the five days beach camp for models to empower and also to develop models opting for a successful career in becoming brand ambassadors in fashion, modelling, presenting among others. “The camp is set aside to develop young talents. We came up with the idea of Models on the Island Africa to groom talents, develop and empower them. Part of what we did in the camp was to bring in celebrities from all walks of life to empower models with their success stories, how they started and how they get to where they are today.” He continued: “This is the fifth year of models on the Island and we have given out four cars so far to the winners of each of the editions. The winner of this year won a brand new car and we have a queen and a king.” He informed that, “This is not a pageant where people come to catwalk; it’s a camp where we train people, whether they are plus size, thin, aged model, because each person has the uniqueness needed by brands; not all model must be skinning so, we are trying to let Nigerians know that modelling is very broad. Acting is part of modelling.” On his part, Joseph Etim said, “We have heard different stories by models on how agencies molest them in the name of securing them a job, how they want to sleep with them before they give them job and so many other challenges facing them in the industry. So, that’s why we came up with the idea of camping to serve as a direct spot where brands can meet a suitable model and also prepare them to face the industry at large.We came up with a movie last two year, Model not prostitute, not only to enlighten models but to also seek parents support for their children willing to be model; we also held a rally to condemn the exploitation of these young models, and most agency attacked us that we should face our business and leave the issue. “The Nigeria modelling sector has been reduced to runway, which is the catwalk. So, this platform is to tell the Nigerian youths that modelling is very broad. Eniola Badmus models for Glo; she’s a good example of such model, she’s plus size and she models. I remember when Indomie did an advert with men with big tummy, but agencies want to make you to believe that modelling is for the thin. So, if you are fat and beautiful, you get discouraged; this platform will make you know that everyone can be a model.” Calling on bodies to give due regard to models, he said, “Agbani Darego will only be hailed if she walk on the streets but Wizkid will close down the street, and it is so because of the way our agencies have portray modelling in Nigeria. We are trying to make models celebrated celebrities so that they will be known like the artistes. While responding to the question on if agents are the main problem, Etim, said, “It’s a share blame on the part of the agents and the models; some models are too desperate for money and fame. Imagine a young girl doing a party starter job for N10,000 because the agencies have built lies into the mind, telling them to do all sorts of jobs to get money, because they are young, those words stick to their mind and it affects them, so, they are easily tossed around.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .