Meghan Markle and Prince Harry‘s following list on Instagram just shrunk from 23 to 16 and no one from the royal family made the cut! The soon-to-be parents just updated their newly launched social media page, unfollowing Kensington Royal (Prince William and Kate Middleton‘s account that they formerly shared with Meghan and Harry), Clarence House(the account of Prince Charles and Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall), Princess Eugenie, Prince Andrew and even The Royal Family (which represents the Queen and other members of the family). But the decision was for a meaningful reason. The couple explained in a new post that they are only following organizations that work to “promote mental well-being, mental fitness, body positivity, self-care, and the importance of human connection” this month. May is Mental Health Awareness Month in the U.S., while Mental Health Awareness Week runs from May 13 to 19 is in the U.K.   May is Mental Health Awareness Month in the US and May 13-19 is Mental Health Awareness Week in the UK. To pay tribute to all of the incredible work people across the globe are doing in this space, we are hoping to shine a light on several Instagram accounts that promote mental well-being, mental fitness, body positivity, self-care, and the importance of human connection – to not just hear each other, but to listen. There are countless organisations doing amazing work for mental health – please consider the accounts we’ve highlighted as a small snapshot of this global support network. We are all in this together. We invite you to explore the extraordinary stories of strength, and the commitment to kindness as seen in the above accounts. Each month we will honour this same concept and change the accounts we solely follow based on a different theme or cause. Please go to our homepage and click “following” to see each of the select accounts and find out more about their work. Please note: Images shared are from some of the handles we are now following A post shared by  The Duke and Duchess of Sussex (@sussexroyal) on Apr 30, 2019 at 3:47pm PDT  “There are countless organisations doing amazing work for mental health – please consider the accounts we’ve highlighted as a small snapshot of this global support network,” they wrote. “We are all in this together.” The accounts include Heads Together (the royals’ mental health initiative), Lady Gaga‘s Born This Way Foundation, Headspace, Pandas Foundation and Oprah Winfrey‘s SuperSoul Sunday talk show. Each month, Meghan and Harry will change their following list to reflect charities and organizations surrounding different causes.