 John Obaro  “Prior the adoption of a Treasury Single Account (TSA), government was struggling to manage 17,000 accounts in multiple banks. TSA is an evidence of technology intervention. It has helped the Nigerian government reduce proliferation of bank accounts operated by Ministries Departments and Agencies (MDAs) to promote transparency and accountability among all organs of the government,” he added.
   
“TSA Revenue/Receipts Collection implementation came into national limelight in September 2015, when President Muhammadu Buhari gave a firm directive to all MDAs to become TSA-compliant in respect of all payments and collections. “Remita manages an interbank platform, which rests on a Straight Through Processing (STP) integration with all banks and over 400 microfinance banks. Funds are also disbursed to beneficiaries from the TSA,” Obaro said.
   
Also contributing, Okolieaboh said the public sector is ready for automation, saying: “There is an improvement in technology usage unlike in the past. We now have the Information Communication Technology (ICT) offices in all government agencies.”
  
Members of the panel also applauded SystemSpecs for the uniqueness of the Remita solution, which has helped to entrench transparency, accountability, convenience and simplified approach to collect and make payments.
 
“The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) should encourage and establish software acquisition by its members. Firms should also build a secured application and invest in their employees through trainings and re-trainings. This is because we need companies to thrive in the 21st century and must build the capacity that can help us compete favourably,” they said.   
They added that technology adoption in the public sector would bring together different sources of data, and help understand better how information flows among different agencies to make informed decisions.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .