 Prof. Nnanyelugo Okoro  Okoro said this in Nsukka  during the faculty 2nd Distinguished Personality Lecture titled “improving the Lives of Poor and Vulnerable Nigerians Through the Establishment of a Social Registry”. He said his mission as dean was to ensure that students from the faculty excelled in academics and good character so as to became priceless assets to their families and country on graduation. “My time as dean of faculty will encourage academic excellence, good behaviour and rapid development. “Both staff and students are carried along in  every programme of the  faculty that is the secret behind my little achievements  within one year in office, “he said. He commended the Vice-chacellor of the university, Prof Benjamin Ozumba whom he said had been given special attention to issues concerning faculty of arts. The dean expressed special appreciation to the 2nd Distinguished Personality lecturer Dr  Apera Iorwa ,National Coordinator, National Social Safety -Net Coordinating Office (NASSCO)  office of the vice president for accepting the invitation to deliver the lecture. “The faculty choose him to deliver the lecture because of  his contributions and concern on improving lives of poor and vulnerable Nigerians,” he said.
”
Delivering the  lecture Iorwa said  the administration of President Mohammadu Buhari had  prioritized  Social Protection (SP) intervention as a key strategy towards reducing poverty and social-economic vulnerabilities in the population. ” Nigeria has one of the highest number of people living in poverty and vulnerability, this is influenced by income inequality, gender inequality, social-culture as well as some  religious norms etc. “In other to salvage this situation Federal Government has partnered with the World Bank to design the National Social Safety Net Project, with the target of dedicating national resources to improve the lives of citizens ” Buhari administration is strengthening  the role of social protection in helping to distribute resources so as to reduce poverty and unemployment in the country,” he said.
The coordinator urged Nigerians especially youths to make  judicious use of social intervention opportunities of the federal government to enable it to achieve the desired result of improving standard of living of Nigerians. Iowa commended the faculty of arts for recognising his little contribution through the platform of NASSCO in improving  lives of poor and vulnerable. Earlier in a remark, Ozumba  who was represented by the deputy Vice chancellor administration Prof Charles Igwe commended the dean of Arts for transforming the faculty within one year of his appointment by given serious attention to issues concerning academics. ,”The management of the university is happy with the transformation you have brought to the faculty within one year of your appointment and urge you to to keep it up. “it’s because you believe in academic excellence that you started this distinguished personality lecture for the department as soon as you assumed office as dean of the faculty,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .