 Suspected Fadeyi cultists  Police sources said two AK 47, two Barretta pistol and other ammunitions were recovered from them. They were arrested while driving along Isheri Olofin area, at about 8:00p.m. on Wednesday. The four suspects have been transferred to the State Anti Robbery Squard (SARS), Ikeja, for further investigation. The four kingpins have confessed to being members of the dreaded Eiye confraternity that had been terrorising Fadeyi, Jibowu and its environs in recent time. Fadeyi and its environs have been in the spotlight recently over activities of the notorious cult members, popularly called “Ereko boys”. Many of their accomplices are also on the wanted-list of the police. Confirming the arrest, Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Bala Elkalna said investigation was ongoing and the police would do the needful as soon as investigation was concluded. This is coming just as residents of Fadeyi in Somolu Local Government Area of Lagos State have called on the Lagos State police command to ensure justice is done in the case of four suspected armed cultists and robbers now cooling their heels with men of the Lagos State Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS). The community, in a petition by their lawyer, Greg I. Aghedo, to the Commissioner of Police, is asking for thorough investigation to ensure that the truth is revealed and justice is not only done, but seen to have been done in the case of the four whom the residents alleged have been terrorising their environs and killed many innocent citizens in the area without any justifiable reason. The residents also call on the Commissioner of Police to ensure that policemen under his command did not cover up anything in their investigation as many of previous complaints about activities of the arrested cultists and other criminals in the area have either been ignored or swept under the carpet. Speaking on behalf of Ayodele Street and adjoining areas of Fadeyi, Shomolu and one Mrs. Suliyat Asekun and Kola Olusanya, the residents said: “Before the arrest of these suspects, they had committed several murders, which includes the murder of the husband of Mrs. Suliyat Asekun. They have always managed to escape from justice. “It was with great joy and relief when information got to our clients that they had been arrested by the Isheri Division of the Lagos Command. We promise to assist the police in its investigation. There is a need for this gang of murderous cultists to be stopped for the general security of the community they have been terrorising for so long.” Meanwhile, the police in Lagos said one suspected traffic armed robber was killed on Saturday during an exchanged of gunfire between his gang and the police in Okokomaiko area of the state. Lagos Police command spokesman, DSP Bala Elkana, confirmed the incident in a statement on Sunday, saying that one other member of the gang was arrested, while others escaped. According to Elkana, on May 17, at about 10:20p.m. a team of policemen from Okokomaiko Police Station, on surveillance patrol intercepted a gang of traffic robbery suspects at Cassidy bus stop, Okokomaiko. “The hoodlums engaged the police in a gun battle but eventually succumbed to the superior power of the police. “One of the hoodlums was fatally injured and one Adigun Ganiyu, 26 years old, was arrested. One double barrel gun with one live cartridge and two expanded cartridges were recovered. One motorcycle used by the hoodlums for the robbery operation was also recovered. Also, the Lagos police command says a gardener at a secondary school has been arrested over an alleged murder of a Senior Secondary school pupil. DSP Bala Elkana, confirmed the arrest in a statement on Sunday. According to Elkana, on Thursday, May 16, at about 2:40p.m., Iponri Police Station received a complaint from Jubril Martins Memorial Grammar School Iponri, that on May 15, at about 4:40p.m., a gardener with the said school engaged a 16-year-old SS3 student in a fight along Oke-Olu Road, Iponri. He said in the process, the student fell down and became unconscious and was rushed to Smith Medical Hospital where he later died. “Eyewitness accounts showed that the deceased person was returning home with his friends after writing WAEC and the suspect blocked him on the way and pulled him down, on the accusation that the deceased student had insulted him before. “Homicide detectives from State Criminal Investigation Department, Yaba, have visited the crime scene, while the corpse of the deceased has been deposited at the mortuary for autopsy,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .