 L-R – Mgbedike, Udo and Okubote. PHOTO/Metropolitan Police  The names of the convicted persons published on the website of the Metropolitan Police Service showed that the three have names that of Nigerian origin names. Their names were given as Kennedy Udo, 29, Michael Mgbedike, 22, and Emmanuel Okubote, 27. Metropolitan Police said Udo of Avery Hill Road, Eltham, SE9 was sentenced to eight years and six months, having been found guilty of conspiracy to supply drugs and being knowingly concerned in the fraudulent evasion of a prohibition on the importation of goods. Mgbedike of Spur Road, Orpington, BR6 was found guilty of conspiracy to supply class A drugs and subsequently sentenced to eight years. Okubote of Evan Cook Close, Peckham, SE15 was found guilty of conspiracy to supply firearms with intent to endanger life, conspiracy to possess ammunition with intent to endanger life, conspiracy to supply class A drugs and possessing ammunition with intent to endanger life. Okubote was previously, on 7 September 2018, Emmanuel, 27 (06.09.1991) of Evan Cook Close, Peckham, SE15 was found guilty of conspiracy to supply firearms with intent to endanger life, conspiracy to possess ammunition with intent to endanger life, conspiracy to supply class A drugs and possessing ammunition with intent to endanger life. He was sentenced to 23.5 years’ imprisonment on 9 November 2018. Okubote was established to be the main orchestrator in the conspiracy, using others with little or no previous criminal history to work for him. The UK police authority accounted that on 12 August 2017, two loaded firearms, ammunition and a sound moderator were recovered in Coquelles in France, in a car destined for Folkestone. The car was seized and subsequently, 990 grams of high purity cocaine was recovered from inside the car’s roof cavity. This led to a proactive operation by the Trident and Area Crime Command with the Border Force. They said the men had made several trips to Amsterdam, via Eurotunnel, during the months of July and August 2017, with at least three importations of prohibited firearms and drugs had taken place. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .