 FCMB building  The winners emerged through rounds of electronic selection from the pool of qualified SME customers in the first draws of the promo for the months of March and April held in Lagos, Kano, Abia and Oyo states. Among the winners were eight customers, who won the star prize of an all-expense paid trip- return flight ticket to China and hotel accommodation for seven nights each, to participate in the 2019 edition of the Canton Trade Fair. In addition, several other SME customers won various exciting items, including $500 pre-loaded shopping cards, business enablers like power generating sets, laptops and consolation prizes. At the Lagos regional draw, Eternal Fabrics Enterprises and Gold Tech Multi-Global Limited, won the star prizes for the months of March and April, respectively, while Jahved Ventures and Sapart Integrated Services Limited in Gombe State emerged winners at the Northern regional draw which took place in Kano. Similarly, Soupah Farm-En-Market Limited and Lade Olagbenro & Company were the star prize winners at the regional draws for South-west, in Ibadan, Oyo State. Ife Progress Resources Limited and The Congregation of the Mission emerged winners at the South-east/South-south regional draw held in Aba, Abia State. Suraj Furniture Limited, Smoothie Express Limited, Pisces OEA Multibil Limited, Goldmet Ventures, Exclusive Champion Limited, Kingdom Ideas Integrated Limited and Brands Yard Limited were winners of $500 preloaded shopping cards, power generating sets and laptops The Executive Director, Business Development of the bank, Mrs. Bukola Smith, said: “This is part of our initiatives to demonstrate our commitment to the growth of SMEs, which are key drivers of economic development. The second edition of this promo has been enhanced to ensure that more customers have the opportunity to emerge as winners. “From 43 winners in the first edition held last year, a total of 320 customers will win either a trip to China, $500 pre-loaded shopping cards or business enablers and other gifts that are on offer in the second edition. “At each of the monthly draws, over 50 qualified customers will be rewarded. We will continue to create opportunities and offer the very best of products as well as services that will grow the business of our SME customers in a sustainable manner. We therefore encourage them to continue to do business with FCMB”. The winners commended FCMB for rewarding and empowering its SME customers.  The Managing Director of Ife Progress Resources, Ezeike Ifechukwu, said: “I was in shock and at same time very happy when I was called by FCMB that I have won a trip to China. I have never been lucky, not even once in my life to win anything.” Another star prize winner of a trip to China, Mrs. Joyce Ajanah, who is the Managing Director of Gold Tech Multi-Tech Limited, said: “I am very excited, really short of words and extremely grateful to FCMB. This is definitely going to make my business grow significantly.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .