Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River State supported by his wife, Dr. Linda Ayade (right), taking oath of office during his swearing-in for second term in Calabar…yesterday. Urges FG to revisit issue of 76 oil wells
Cross River State governor, Prof. Ben Ayade, has declared that he would concentrate on overseeing the completion of his industrialisation projects across the state in his second. Ayade, who was casually dressed, which, according to him, was a reflection of his desire to spend more time outside the office inspecting projects, made the declaration at the U.J. Esuene Stadium in Calabar during his inauguration. He said his new role would be to personally oversee the completion of projects, while his deputy would be acting as governor. “In my second tenure, I will no longer be the governor; my deputy will be the acting governor, while I will become the project manager of Cross River, as I will relocate to Ikom Council.” The governor disclosed that in addition to completing ongoing projects, including his signature projects, the Bakassi deep seaport and the 276-kilometre superhighway, he would also site industries in the councils with none. Ayade also called on the federal government to look into the plight of the state on its loss of 76 oil wells to Akwa Ibom, which already had more, just as he seeks compensation through the stabilisation fund. He threatened to sue the government, if it refuses to intervene. “In 2016, I issued a report on the oil deposits in Cross River. We have not asked for money; we are only asking for our constitutional right to explore our natural resources. Three years down the line, we are waiting. Cross River has been abused and reduced to nothing in body, spirit and soul. “I plead with President Muhammadu Buhari to hearken to the prayer of the people of Cross River, that we know our worth and we have shown so much understanding with absolute belief that in the fullness of time, justice will be done.” He called on Cross River senior advocates to be ready “because the federal government has to tell us what we have done so wrong.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .