 Former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Timi Frank  Frank in a statement expressed disappointment over the decision by President Muhammadu Buhari to embark on a trip to the United Kingdom (UK) when the northern part of the country was at the receiving end of armed bandits and kidnappers. Frank threw his weight behind the leader of the Yoruba socio-cultural group, Afenifere, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, who was quoted as saying that he would not recognise Buhari as the president-elect pending the decision of the Supreme Court. Frank, who commended Adebanjo for his courage in speaking truth to power, added that no matter how long it takes, the will of people would surely prevail. “It is unfortunate that Nigeria has very few men like Pa Adebanjo, who can boldly say it as it is. Even at their very old age, hypocrisy is still a meal ticket for so many and that is why illegality reigns supreme in Nigeria. “Under the watch of Buhari, there is no governance and that is why his appointees are taking advantage of his incompetence to loot public funds. Buhari has taken the country from bad to worse, and democracy is now getting another meaning under the nose of a failed President,” Frank stated. Frank also reacted to the worsening security situation across the country, insisting that the money meant to buy security equipment have been stolen by a clique inside APC’s administration. “Where is the motivation? All the money meant to the purchase weapons have been stolen by the APC government. The President cannot sack the tired and long due for retirement Service Chiefs because the secret of his illegal second term is in their (Service Chiefs) hands. “A caring President cannot abandon the country when the nation is on fire. Buhari does not care and that is why he chose to travel for a private matter when his subjects are dying in large numbers to banditry, kidnapping and hunger.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .