 Burna Boy | Photo – Zikoko  Billed for June 23, the show will premiere live across the continent on BET Africa (DStv channel 129) on Monday 24 June at 19:00 WAT.
 
The awards celebrate the brightest stars across music, television, film, sports, and philanthropy. The nominees announced yesterday in the Best International Act Award category are Nigerian musicians Burna Boy and Mr. Eazi, alongside South African Hip Hop rapper AKA. Also included in the category are Dave and Giggs from the UK with Aya Nakamura and Dosseh from France. In the fan voted category of Best New International Act is Nigeria’s Teniola ‘Teni’ Apata, Sho Madjodzi from South Africa, Headie One and Octavian from the UK and France’s Jokair and Nesly.
 
BET will honour the Best International Act in-show, along with the viewer’s choice fan voted category Best New International Act during the live red-carpet pre-show.
 
“The BET Awards is a powerful platform for celebrating and elevating black excellence from around the world,” said Alex Okosi, Executive Vice President and Managing Director, BET International Viacom International Media Networks Africa. Mr. Eazi  Last year in 2018, for the first time, globally acclaimed Davido emotionally received his BET Best International Act Award live on stage during the global broadcast of the show with South Africa’s Sjava in traditional Zulu regalia receiving his Best New International Act at the live Red-Carpet Show.
 
In its nineteenth year, the BET AWARDS continues its reign as the ultimate platform showcasing the best and most beautiful aspects of the Black experience – celebrating not only the present and future of Black music, but also elevating the culture and being a driving force for social change. BET Networks recognizes artists, entertainers, and athletes across 20 categories with the 2019 “BET Awards” nominations. The nominations are selected by BET’s Voting Academy, which is comprised of fans and an esteemed group of entertainment professionals in the fields of television, film, music, social media, digital marketing, sports journalism, public relations, and the creative arts. Internationally, the show will simulcast for the first-time on BET Africa at 1am WAT on June 24th.  
 
Fans will be able to cast their vote for their favourite Best International Act nominees beginning today on BET.com and on both Twitter and Instagram @BET_Africa @BET_TV_FR @BET_Intl using each artist’s designated hashtag. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .