 [FILES] Phillip Obioha, Chairman Board of CWG Plc.<br />ITPulse  The ‘Business Alliance Partner’ of the Year Award is given to Infosys partners in Africa and the Middle East that have demonstrated outstanding performance in the deployment of Infosys solution across the region within the period. According to the organizers, CWG Plc won the award because of its demonstrated capacity and track Record. CWG Plc is the largest systems integration technology company in Africa. With over two decades of immense contribution to the information communication and technology sector in Africa, CWG Plc has continuously remained a benchmark for excellence. CWG Plc was recognised for supporting over 60% Of banks (11) in Nigeria and increasing the users base consistently, having a sufficient pool of well trained and Finacle certified personnel, possessing the capacity to implement the Finacle suite of solutions end-to-end, having an experienced team that provides 24×7 support and for having the capacity to customize and integrate Finacle with other third-party solutions. Today, Finacle is the choice of banks across 94 countries and serves over 848 million customers-estimated to be nearly 16.5 per cent of the world’s adult banked population. Speaking on the award, Adewale Adeyipo, Ag Group CEO, CWG Plc, pointed out that the award is a testimony of CWG’s commitment and capacity to provide business enabling technology solutions to key players of the economy over the years, especially in the banking and telecoms sector. According to  Adeyipo, “Our business profile has been defined by the deployment of consumer-centric IT products and solutions for over 27 years years. In turn, we have been distinguished as a partner of choice for Global Original Equipment Manufacturers.” “For us, this award is a call to continosly provides a Core Banking Solution that makes our customers more efficient and profitable. CWG is prepared to continue providing these excellent services in the form of solution sales, deployments, upgrades, hands-on training and other support services.” The Finacle Core Banking solution is a comprehensive, integrated, yet modular and agile business solution, addressing all the core needs of banks, in easy-to-configure modules. Finacle provides all the building blocks of business functionality, enabling users to configure products and processes flexibly in order to adapt to a dynamic, ever changing digital environment. CWG Plc’s Finacle core banking solution portfolio has grown to support 15 financial houses ever since. And recently, CWG announced that it will offer the Finacle banking solution as a managed service on the cloud in order to help banks optimize operating expenditure.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .