 Death by Hanging  It reads: “On the night of December 20, 2016, we received the news that our daughter, sister, and friend, Dayo Enioluwa Adeleke, was brutally slaughtered in cold blood whilst defenseless and in the solace of her own home by her Cameroonian domestic help, Joel Ledjou. Words cannot describe the complete and utter devastation that her senseless murder has caused in our lives. “Joel had just been employed two months prior to the murder. Dayo’s usual empathy and the need to help a ‘poor refugee’ as described by the pastor who referred him from Mountain of Solution Ministries, led to her employing him. It is ironic that the person she employed, out of her compassion, turned round and snuffed out her life in one senseless act of greed. “Her supposed ‘offence’ was that she had not obliged him a two-week salary advance, which he requested earlier that morning. Joel robbed Dayo of marriage, motherhood and longevity, a painful fact that still hurts us as a family each passing day. The Nigeria Police worked tirelessly in investigating the matter and the Ministry of Justice, Lagos State, has worked diligently in prosecuting the matter. Though still heartbroken, we are somewhat consoled that justice has finally been served. Our beloved Dayo can now rest peacefully in the knowledge that her perpetrator received the full weight of the law.” Meanwhile, a Togolese cook, Sunday Anani, charged with the murder of the Chief Executive Officer of Credit Switch Ltd, Chief Opeyemi Bademosi, yesterday told a Lagos High Court in Igbosere that he was interested in a plea bargain agreement with the government. Anani, 23, is standing trial on a two-count charge of murder and armed robbery preferred against him by the Lagos State government. According to the prosecution, Anani, last October 31, at Parkview Estate, Ikoyi, stabbed Bademosi, 67, to death with a knife and stole his valuables. He was arraigned on April 10, and pleaded “Not guilty”, following which the judge adjourned till yesterday for trial. At the commencement of proceedings on Tuesday, Anani’s counsel, the Director of the Office of the Public Defender (OPD), Mrs. Aderenra Adeyemi, informed the court of the defendant’s intention to change his plea. Adeyemi told Justice Mobolanle Okikiolu-Ighile that Anani would be opting for a plea bargain deal and that the defence had approached the prosecutor, Lagos State Director of Public Prosecution (DPP), Ms. Titilayo Shitta-Bay, to that effect. The judge directed her to bring application to that effect and ordered that trial should continue. Shitta-Bey then called Mrs. Ebunoluwa Bademosi, wife of the deceased, as the prosecution’s first witness. The witness narrated how on the day of the incident, she returned from a bank to find her husband in a pool of blood on the floor.Justice Okikiolu-Ighile, adjourned till June 11, for continuation of trial. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .