 Tiwa Savage (right) with Universal Music Group team  Mavin Records head honcho, Don Jazzy, via his Instagram account, @DonJazzy, has since sent out a farewell message to her and thanked her for amazing seven years with his label during which she released two albums and one extended play (EP).“Our darling Tiwatope. We at Mavin would like to say a very big thank you for being such an inspiration to all of us, a friend, a sister. It’s been an epic journey with you and we are very proud of what we have achieved together. “As you start this new chapter in your life, we want you to know that we are solidly behind you and can’t wait for the world to see what we have always believed you can be. Your jersey as the First Lady of Mavin will forever be yours, as we do not intend to fill that position with anyone else.“We love you from the bottom of heart and pray GOD’s blessings continue to follow you. Amennnn,” Don Jazzy wrote. However, barely 24 hours after the news of the deal  filtered in, singer Burna Boy sent out a warning to fellow artistes on the perils of international record deals, and thanked his mother cum manager, Bose Ogulu for helping him get a great deal with Atlantic Records.The Killing Dem singer in a post on his Snapchat page said he feels sorry for those signing such international deals, describing them as ‘victims’. He vowed never to sign any deal with international record labels. “I feel so sorry for all you Nigerian artistes jumping into these international deals. You guys don’t know what you’re doing. I will forever be grateful and thankful to my manager/mother for making sure I will never be an international victim. I feel bad for every single one of you. I’m hearing some really crazy shit out here. I’m so sad for you all,” he wrote Nigerian artiste and Hypertek Digital signee, Dammy Krane earlier yesterday, also added his voice to the trending issue. The Amin singer took to his Instagram to ventilate his position. “As an African artiste, the moment you step out for international deals, if you were supposed to get $300million, you would be given $3 million because you went to them. The reason why people like Fela gained from their international deal is because they came to him! See finish nor dey, na you be superstar for your house. “Going to make deals with them in the (United) States only shows you want something from them. They would sell you cheap. Nobody sabi you as superstar for yankee, you go gats live your lavish lifestyles to be noticed.
Meanwhile, these labels know Africans have massive numbers worldwide. That’s what they’re looking for. “No need to concentrate on yankee market! It’s all about Africa! No black man can make it in America… Think about it,  which black man has ever passed his wealth to his generations in America? Them go use scandal and tax to ruin him. The world to Africa,” he wrote. But Davido Music World (DMW) artiste, Peruzzi has disagreed with Burna Boy and Dammy Krane. Taking to his Instagram stories, the Beng Beng singer said: “You can make it anywhere you want to make it! Nothing is impossible with hard work and God! Una too like plenty talk everybody face your work.” 