Enyimba FC Abia State Commissioner for Information, John Okeiyi Kalu, has explained that the dissolution of the boards of Enyimba of Aba and Abia Warriors was part of the transition process initiated by the state government ahead of May 29 inauguration of a new regime. Until the dissolution of his board, Enyimba’s Chairman, Felix Anyansi Agwu, was the longest serving head of a Nigerian professional football club, having been in charge of the club since 1999. His board was dissolved last week alongside that of Abia Warriors, led by Emeka Inyama, and 30 other government agencies. The government had in a statement thanked the respective boards for their service to the state, and directed the affected members to hand over all government documents and properties to the relevant offices. “Abia State Governor, . Okezie Ikpeazu, has approved the immediate dissolution of the boards of the following establishments in the state,” the statement read. The other agencies affected by the action include Abia State Water Board, Abia State Transport Corporation, Umuahia Capital Development Authority, Abia State Housing Corporation, Abia State Library Board and Broadcasting Corporation of Abia State, among others. Okeiyi Kalu told The Guardian yesterday that Governor Ikpeazu, who was re-elected at the last general elections, dissolved the boards ahead of his inauguration for a second term later this month. “Enyimba and Abia Warriors are not the only government agencies involved in this process. It is routine and part of the process for a new government to be formed.” Okeiyi Kalu did not say if Anyansi and/or Inyama would be part of the new boards of the two Abia State-owned clubs because “that would be decided by the governor and the executive.” Anyansi Agwu’s regime made Enyimba the most successful football club in Nigerian history with seven Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL) titles and four Federation Cup crowns. The club also became the first and only Nigerian club to win the CAF Champions League and African Super Cup, which they achieved back to back in 2003 and 2004. Veteran sports journalist, Emeka Inyama was named the chairman of Abia Warriors in 2012. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .