Japa crooner, Naira Marley, has been the centre of media attention for weeks after he bashed fellow singer Simi after she and her husband, Adekunle Gold for publicly speaking against Advanced Fee Fraud (Yahoo.) Simi called on all Yahoo boys to stop listening and promoting the songs of Nigerian artistes because of the shame they have brought to Nigeria. This callout angered Naira Marley, an artiste who sings the praises of Yahoo boys in his songs, causing him to post an Instagram video with the caption, “If u know about slavery u go know say yahoo no b crime” and also said that she snubbed him at an event using his infamous line, “Am I A Yahoo Boy?” Read More: Watch Naira Marley’s “Am I A Yahoo Boy” Video Feat. Zlatan Ibile His response sparked a conversation on social media attracting the attention of Instagrammer Tunde Ednut who first called him to caution and then apologised for speaking against him. Simi, on her own part said, “We are not friends, we are not enemies. I saw him coming, we did not make eyes contacts, he did not talk to me, I did not talk to him. It is funny because he didn’t do anything to me, he did not directly disrespect me.” Since then, Naira Marley has become the poster boy for Nigerians who see nothing wrong with his statement. Only three days ago, he referred to Ruggedman as a “going down” artiste after the rapper said on Hip TV’s street programme, “Naira Marley is a fraudster and we are not supporting him.” A few hours that Davido slammed him and described Ruggedman as a “legend.” Just when it looked like he was putting everything in the backburner to celebrate his birthday today, the “Marry Juana” singer got what would be ranked as one of the biggest surprises of his life in recent times after the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) came knocking. Since then, Nigerians have expressed mixed reactions over the news: Naira Marley is the dumbest guy ever. You glorified yahoo and turned EFCC eyes towards you. Pure definition of “ Trouble Dey sleep, yanga go wake am “. — DREYLO (@RealDreylo) May 10, 2019  Stop coming here to disturb us with “EFCC have no right to arrest Naira Marley”
If you know what they’ve done is wrong, wear a shirt with “I am a Yahoo Boy” on it then go to EFCC office to protest. Shebi ori yin buru ni pic.twitter.com/g9CCxgUlie — Retired Sinner (@R_Thobykov) May 10, 2019  Some are making a joke out of the situation: EFCC: Naira Marley, you are under arrest.. Zlatan: Me I’m not there o pic.twitter.com/4abcOOTkiq — Lazy Artist  (@dsgaert) May 10, 2019  EFCC arrests Naira Marley ,at least give him a studio in his cell let him be giving us jams steady  pic.twitter.com/jNvAai95XE — Architect Olamigenius  (@Olamigenius1) May 10, 2019  EFCC: what is your name? Naira Marley: Naira Marley *Slaps* EFCC: What is your name Naira Marley: Afeez Fashola EFCC: pic.twitter.com/KAjEG2pVRZ — Retired Sinner (@R_Thobykov) May 10, 2019  Naira Marley when he gets to police cell and his yahoo friends stop picking his calls pic.twitter.com/MJcZ9pOIYq — Naira Marley (@STA3RK) May 10, 2019 