Bonga oil field. PHOTO: SHELL Oil major, Shell, said its ongoing Assa North/Ohaji South gas development in Imo State will produce 600 million standard cubic feet of gas per day, energy equivalent of about 2,400 Megawatts (MW) of electricity enough to provide uninterrupted power to 2.4 million homes. Noting that 13 per cent of the electricity generated in 2018 came from the 650MW Afam VI power plant, the oil firm noted that the Assa project will further aid energy generation in the country. Besides, Shell reiterated its determination to support development in Nigeria, by exploring more oil in the deepwater frontier of the country. With the completion of its invitation to tender (ITT), the company said it was about taking a Final Investment Decision (FID), on the $10 billion Bonga South West Aparo project. Unveiling the 2018, Shell in Nigeria “Briefing Notes” in Lagos, yesterday, Managing Director, the Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited (SPDC), and Country Chair, Shell Companies in Nigeria, Osagie Okunbor, disclosed that the oil major paid a total of $17.8 billion as taxes, royalties, and levies to the Nigerian Government from 2014 to 2018. Okunbor also said Shell contributed $2 billion to Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), and spent $239 million under its Global Memorandum of Understanding (GMoU), for host community development. “SPDC took the final investment decision on the Assa North/Ohaji South project last December giving a major momentum to the domestic gas aspiration of the federal government for increased power generation and industrialisation,” he said. Giving a breakdown of the gas production, Okunbor said 300 million standard cubic feet (mscf) of gas per day would be processed at a new gas processing plant owned by the SPDC Joint Venture, while the remaining 300mscf will go to a proposed gas processing plant by Seplat Petroleum. Okunbor described the project as a game changer in Nigeria’s quest for energy sufficiency and economic growth. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .