 [FILE PHOTO] Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta. Photo/NgComCommission  Speaking when he received a delegation from the Federal College of Horticulture, Gombe, in Abuja, Danbatta noted that NCC embarked on the project in efforts to make Nigerian graduates employable. Danbatta represented by the Director, Projects Department, Mrs. Abigail Sholanke, explained that the Commission has been supplying laptops, internet facilities as well as organising train-the-trainers’ workshops in various schools. He said the NCC had also embarked on the building of computer-based centres across Nigeria, adding that ICT Parks were being constructed across various states, and stressed the need for Nigerian schools to embrace e-learning to forestall being left behind by comity of ICT-compliant nations across the world. The EVC further revealed that the Commission is giving grants to the academic staff of tertiary institutions for research purposes, adding that research is indispensable for national development. Earlier, the Provost of the Horticulture College, Prof. Fatima Sawa, showered encomiums on the management of NCC for the provision of internet facilities, and e-libraries in schools. Sawa noted that this gesture has transformed the learning capacity and research of the beneficiary institutions, adding that most of the staff from the institutions were now e-compliant, courtesy of the Commission.She however solicited more assistance and support from NCC in the areas of provision of laptops to lecturers, and building of computer-based centre in the school. Meanwhile,  the Principal, Federal Government College Billiri, also in Gombe State, Ibrahim Abner, commended the NCC for providing computers to the school, and sought more support to improve ICT teaching and learning in the school, noting that though situated in the North East the school enjoys a peaceful atmosphere for learning.
Abner averred that the school will continue to be grateful to NCC for establishing an Internet laboratory in the school, adding that it has enhanced its learning facilities. Director of Projects, NCC, Iyabode Solanke, who received the Principal and his team on behalf of Danbatta said the Commission has established numerous Internet laboratories in various schools in Nigeria, and will continue to support education through the provision of ICT equipment, as the world is becoming internet driven. Solanke said: “we encourage students to be computer literate so they can work anywhere and do whatever that is good that they want to do with their lives in and after school.”She assured that the school’s request will be reviewed, and forwarded to the Management for consideration, just as the NCC will keep to its mandate of providing ICT intervention to learning institutions and hospitals, and tasked them to effectively put them to use.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .