The remains of Gen. David Ejoor, former Military Administrator of Mid-west region and Chief of Staff Nigeria Army, was committed to mother Earth yesterday in his home town, Ovwor-Olomu, in Ughelli South council, Delta State, amid tears, but not devoid of a mild drama. Midway into the interment oration, however, Gen. Yakubu Gowon, former Nigerian Head of State, suddenly slummed by Ejoor’s graveside and was immediately rushed to a nearby shed by military officers where an ambulance was stationed. After first aid treatment was administered to the former head of state he recovered and was allowed to rest awhile. Governor Ifeanyi Okowa was rattled by the development that he left his seat and joined the resuscitation team in the canopy to observe how Gowon fared. He was also joined by a few other eminent personalities including former Governor James Ibori. Gowon in his speech rained praises on late Ejoor describing him as a good soldier and family man. He also pleaded with Nigerians to make sacrifices for the peace and unity of the country. Gowon said “I thank you all for coming to this ceremony, we served in the Nigerian Army so many years ago and I am delighted with the encomiums poured on the deceased who was a good soldier and a good family man,”  Gen. Gowon said, adding that Nigerians should continue to make sacrifices for the peace and unity of the country. Rev. Fr. Greg Umukoro, remarked that the deceased, “lived a good life of service to the nation and humanity.” Governor Okowa thanked Nigerians from far and near for attending the burial ceremony, saying “we referred to Gen. Ejoor as Daddy, he was a distinguished elder statesman and if we believe in the thoughts that he had,  we will have a great nation, a nation that is peaceful and United.” “He had all the attributes a man should have; a quality human being who cared for his family and the nation and those of us that lives should emulate the qualities that he had to make our country better”, Okowa said. His Edo State counterpart, Governor Obaseki, said Ejoor’s spectacular contributions to the unity of Nigeria will continue to be acknowledged. Obaseki said as a former Military Administrator of Midwest State comprising Delta and Edo States, the deceased deserved to be honoured for erecting structures for future leaders of the two states to build on. The ceremony was also attended by the Chief of Army Staff, Major General Tukur Yusuf Buratai, Service Chiefs, Speaker of the Delta State House of Assembly, Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori, several retired military officers, politicians, captains of industry and chiefs from the Urhobo ethnic nationality attended the burial ceremony. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .