 Liverpool’s English midfielder Jordan Henderson (L) celebrates after Liverpool’s Dutch midfielder Georginio Wijnaldum scores their third goal during the UEFA Champions league semi-final second leg football match between Liverpool and Barcelona at Anfield in Liverpool, north west England on May 7, 2019. (Photo by Paul ELLIS / AFP)  Although they do not need magical performance like the one conjured against Ajax, a draw against Everton will simply keep Arsenal – their North London rivals – silent in Burnley irrespective of the outcome there. Unlike many seasons ago when the battle to stay in the Premier League went to the wire alongside the bragging rights for the title, nobody cares about who’s going down this time around as the fate of Huddersfield, Fulham and Cardiff are already sealed as they begin new lives in the Championship in August. However, that is a near contrast to where the champagne bottles would pop when the whistles finally signal the end of the 2018/2019 English Premier League season. Although, Pep Guardiola and his crew know that the ‘gods are not to blame,” if they let it slip their hands at the Amex Stadium in Brighton, Liverpool on their part, would first need to take care of their own business while also hoping that Chris Houghton’s troops conjure some magic and assist them wrestle the trophy off Guardiola’s boys. That might look impossible on paper, but don’t bet the ranch against anything on the final day of the Premier League. In other words, with just a point separating Manchester City and Jurgen Klopp’s boys, City know that not only is the possibility of successfully defending the title a reality, their fate is completely in their own hands. Liverpool, like Arsenal, will, in addition to first taking care of their own businesses, rely on both Brighton and Burnley to make their own dreams come true. Of course, the noise will be loudest at Anfield should Brighton rain on City’s parade. Arsenal faithful too would be partying all till Monday morning if Pochettino’s crew let next year’s final Champions League slot slip out of their grasp in the encounter against Everton. One thing is sure though, there’ll be many broken hearts when the final whistles go. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .