PHOTO:AFP A 29-year-old housewife, Mary Simon, has appeared before an Ikeja Chief Magistrates’ Court for allegedly pouring hot pot of rice on her neighbour, who is a policewoman. Simon, who resides at Block 6, Flat 3, Mopol 20 Barracks in Lagos, is facing a charge of assault to which she pleaded not guilty. The Prosecutor, Sgt. Michael Unah, yesterday told the court that the defendant committed the offence on April 11 at about 2:00p.m. at her residence. Unah said the defendant assaulted the complainant, Insp. Justina Yohana, by pouring boiling pot of rice on her backside, after a misunderstanding. He said the complainant went to the defendant’s house with her friend and demanded the reason she abused her while she was passing by. “The complainant beat the defendant out of anger and the defendant retaliated by pouring the pot of rice she was cooking on her. The incident caused grievous injuries on the complainant,” he said. The Chief Magistrate, Mr. A.A. Fashola, granted the defendant bail in the sum of N100,000 with one surety in like sum. He added that the surety must be blood relatives of the defendant and should live within the court’s jurisdiction. The offence contravenes Section 173 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015 and attracts three years imprisonment if convicted. The case was adjourned until May 22. Meanwhile, a 20-year-old apprentice, Kosi Nnamani, has been arraigned in Ikeja Magistrates’ Court for allegedly stealing his master’s goods worth N1.94 million. According to the prosecutor, ASP Clifford Ogu, the defendant committed the offence between October 2018 and March 13 in Ikeja. He said that the defendant and others still at large allegedly stole the goods belonging to one Mr. Victor Umendu. Ogu told the court that the defendant, who was serving Umendu with a view to getting settlement after some months, conspired with his friends to steal from him. “When the complainant noticed that goods were reducing in his shop, with little cash remitted, he decided to take stock, which led to the discovery that goods worth N1.94 million were missing. “The complainant collected his apprentice phone, read some messages where he discovered that the defendant has been transferring money to one Chimelo and Johnson. He also discovered that the defendant had bought land in Enugu State.” Nnamani pleaded not guilty to the two-count charge. Magistrate J.A. Adegun granted the defendant bail in the sum of N200,000 with two sureties and adjourned until May 13 for mention. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .