Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero is the Emir of Bichi, which is one of the new four emirates carved out of Kano Emirate. In this interview with MURTALA ADEWALE, he bares his mind on several issues thrown up by the development. The newly appointed Emir of Bichi, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero, has cleared doubts surrounding his recent appointment to the prestigious office of first class emir in Kano State by Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje. Bayero, who is the son of the late Emir of Kano, Alhaji Ado Bayero, broke his silence on his installation as emir of Bichi alongside four new emirs during an interactive session with journalists in his palace, revealing that he has never ‘begged for traditional titles’ despite his seeming steady elevation in traditional ranking in the state. He also shed light on why he accepted the new appointment as well as his present relationship with Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi II.
 
Governor Ganduje had recently assented to the Emir’s Appointment and Deposition Bill 2019 passed by the state House of Assembly. In consonance with the spirit of the new law, the governor approved the creation of four new emirate councils and the appointment of four new first class emirs, whom he subsequently presented with staff of office. They include the Emir of Rano, Alhaji Tafida Abubakar Il; Emir of Gaya, Alhaji Ibrahim Abdulkadir Gaya; Emir of Karaye, Dr. Ibrahim Abubakar II and Emir of Bichi, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero. Bayero, a Mass Communication graduate of Bayero University, Kano, narrated how he was first appointed as district head in 1990 by his late father, saying he had always considered occupying any position of power as the will of the Almighty God. The emir said: “ Let me say that it is God that gives power and position and in His infinite and supremacy, He bestows such power and position to whom He so desires. Let me cite this example; I was appointed a district head and Dan Maje Kano in 1990 by my late father. From Dan Maje, I was promoted to Dan Buran Kano. From Dan Buran, I was elevated to Turakin Kano and later moved to another higher post as Sarkin Dawakin Sakarin Gida Kano. “That is the traditional title I was holding when my father passed on. When the new emir came, perhaps on his own assessment and volition, he promoted me to Wambe Kano, a senior counsellor in Kano emirate. “Now, let me tell you this secret.  Right from day one when I was appointed a traditional ruler till this period of my appointment as Emir of Bichi, I have never, and let me repeat, I have never gone to any person to look or seek for position and you can do your investigation. I have never gone to anybody to say, ‘please give me this title’. I don’t ask for positions; I believe anything that comes my way is from God.” Speaking on his decision to accept the new position of Emir of Bichi, Bayero hinted that it had become pertinent to change with time, saying the world evolves over certain space and period. Although the first class emir acknowledged that he never wished that the Kano emirate would be split, he said he was consoled by the fact that the new emirates would no doubt promote the growth and development of Kano. Bayero explained: “A lot has happened over times and years. We have had creations, re-creations and several reformations and this is not peculiar to Kano and even Nigeria as a country. I can say that it is this process of evolution that brought about the formation of the four new emirate councils by the government. As a proud member of the royal family, it was never my intention to see the Kano emirate council divided into sub-emirates. It was never my wish.  But we have to take so many things into consideration especially the fact that time changes a lot of things. “As I said in another forum, Kano native authority was used during the colonial era to govern and administer power then.  Later it was converted to emirate up till independence in 1960 and in 1963, my father, Alhaji Dr. Ado Bayero became the emir of Kano. He ruled for over 50 years and I’m sure you all know that as at that time, the native authority system was in control of all the law enforcement agencies  – the police, customs, immigration and others. But later, things changed and the control of all these agencies returned to the government. “You will agree with me that from 1960 till this moment, a lot of things have changed with time. As I said earlier, I didn’t wish anything to divide the Kano emirate but time has brought about change and new developments, which we all need to accept in good faith. We pray that the new development will be to the betterment of the people of Kano and the society in general. And my ultimate prayers are for peace to reign in Kano.” On how the new emirates would to foster unity and development of Kano, given the contention trailing their creation, Bayero stressed that the ultimate responsibility of leaders is to ensure peace and development. “Peace is part and parcel of our religion, Islam. And for me, regardless of whoever you are and whatever position God has placed you in life, what should be paramount to you is the peace and unity of where you are. Now, if the new emirs and the emir of Kano truly believe in unity and development of Kano, which I don’t have doubt about, I don’t see why all of us cannot unite as traditional leaders to continue to live among ourselves in peace and unity. “It’s not only the traditional rulers; whoever is in Kano today must learn how to maintain and embrace peace and unity for the progress of the state. So, whether or not there is creation of new emirates, so long as the leaders have the love of the people at heart, they would ensure the peace of Kano,” the emir emphasised. On his relationship with the emir of Kano presently, Bayero disabused the minds of those who might be insinuating that there could be internal rancour between them, saying he bears no grudges against the former Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). “I don’t need to tell the whole world before you know that the Emir of Kano, Alhaji Muhammad Sansui is my brother and our relationship remain in tact as mutual as ever. Today, there is change and government effected creation of additional emirates. I accepted the traditional title in good faith as God’s will. What I want the people of Kano to understand is that I am still a son and royal member of Kano emirate and I want people to consider the new emirates as new developments that will lead to the growth of Kano. “As far as I know, we don’t have anything between us. Let me also say this clearly; when Muhammad Sanusi II became the Emir of Kano, I was among the first traditional title holders who supported him with my whole heart. I paid my loyalty, my homage and every other respect you can talk about. Now, change has come into the emirate council. I hope and wish I will also receive same support from Kano emirate.” Asked to comment on the political colouration being given to the creation of the new emirates, Bayero said only the government could answer the question appropriately. His words: “Well, I don’t really understand what you mean by that but generally human beings are political animals, though it all depends on how you play your politics. Now, if you say the establishment of the new emirates is political, I am sure you are not referring to me as one of the key players; probably you are referring to the government and I think it is the government that can respond appropriately to that question.” On the litigation bedeviling the creation of the new emirates and appointment of the new emirs, Bayero said he was willing to accept the outcome of the court case. “As I said, God alone bestows power and alone He takes the power. Now, if along the line there is a change from what I am today to what I was, I will still thank Almighty God for that because I believe that, that is what God wanted to happen,” he noted.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .