 Lanre Olusola  Shortly after her National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Chioma got a job at one of the leading Law firms in Nigeria. She worked at the Law firm for over four (4) years and things were going pretty well. But after a while, she started having second thoughts and this put her in a state of confusion; she had the job of her dreams, she was making money, and she was doing well at her age. But she still felt very dissatisfied and unfulfilled. She wanted more. Her life was a routine, and she was tired. There was no inner peace that came with what she was doing as a Lawyer. This internal struggle kept going on for months, until Chioma decided to take a little break from her work place to focus a little more on herself. Taking a break from work gave her ample time to think and re-evaluate her career choices. Chioma came to the conclusion that she wanted to transition into a different career path. She would still handle some Legal work, but she wanted to start a different project outside the Legal field. Chioma was really scared about the transition and how bad it might affect her. While surfing through the Internet concerning transition guides, she came across a Life Coach’s web page on “why you need a Coach during your Career Transition”.  After doing her underground investigation concerning the Life Coach, Chioma booked an appointment to meet her. An intake session, turned out to be a full-blown two weeks Career/Life session. With the help and guidance of the Life Coach, Chioma not only understood herself better; she was able to transition from her current state of chaos to where she desired to be in her career. This is what getting the help of a Life Coach does for us. Coaching focuses on the client’s strengths, life purpose and goals; and also working with clients to create possibilities to enrich their lives. Coaching puts the Coachee in charge of his/her life and work, believing that every client is creative, resourceful and whole on their own. With this, a coach works along side with a Coachee, to maximize his/her potential(s), in order to close the gaps to create extraordinary life. In finding the career of your dreams, below are few points to take into consideration:
1. Ask Yourself the Key Question: According to Philosopher Alan Watts, the best way to find what you should be doing with your life is to ask yourself this important question: “What would you do if money were no object?” What if you won the lottery and you could do whatever you wanted to do with your life? What would you do to make yourself truly happy? 2. Lead with Your Strengths: Just because you do not know what career you want does not mean you do not know what you are good at. Write down a list of your top strengths. Being actively confronted with what you are good at and what makes you tick, personality-wise is a powerful way of assessing a career path that will fit and compliment those strengths.Yes, you can be good at anything if you try hard enough or put in enough time, but you can save a lot of that time and avoid a lot of frustration if you simply let your strengths be indicative of what you should be doing instead of forcing yourself into a career that does not really fit. 3. Take Courses and Try Something New: Take classes, attend workshops, read books, watch YouTube tutorials, and try something new whenever the opportunity presents itself. By taking these chances as they come you may find out few things you enjoy doing. 4. Consider the Type of Work Environment Where You Will Thrive: Are people in the workplace you are considering competitive with one another or collaborative? Are they friends outside of the office? Do they work as a team or work primarily on their own? Can people work from home or are they expected to work in the office? What is the work-life balance like? What are the salary expectations? These are all important questions to ask about potential workplaces and employers when you are searching for that dream job to jump-start a new career path. It is also advisable to do some initial research on your own. 5. Be the solution to a problem: Often we think specifically in terms of what we want, what our dream job is, or how to pursue our objectives that we forget the fact that getting a job means someone chooses to pay you to solve a problem, or to fill a need in a company. Your job should have a purpose and you should be the best person to solve the problem. Finally Get a Life Coach! The time to re-establish your dreams, visions and goals in different areas of your life, and make it 100% achievable is right now! Sign up for our Life Coaching and NLP Combo class, which runs from the 24th to the 30th of June 2019. For more enquires, kindly contact us on 08077077000 or send a mail to info@olcang.com. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .