Adamawa Muslim Pilgrims Welfare Board, has announced that intending Pilgrims from the state for the 2019 Hajj would pay N1,510,000, the least fare in the country. Umar Bobboyi, the Executive Secretary of the board, made the disclosure on Sunday in Yola. Bobboyi said that the actual Hajj fare for 2019 as released by the National Hajj Commission was N1,510,106:10. ” When we received the approval from the National Hajj Commission, the state muslim pilgrims welfare board sat down at the state level and removed N106 and 10 kobo making it now N1,510,000. “The decision taken by the state board was to make the payment easy for the intending Pilgrims. “And from the development, the Adamawa intending pilgrims are going to pay the least compared with the charges of other states in the country,” Bobboyi said. He noted that there was an increase of N33,600 in the 2019 Hajj fares compared with what was paid by pilgrims in 2018. He added that among the reason why Adamawa hajj fare was the least, followed the capacity of the board to argue against unnecessary changes during negotiations with appropriate authorities. “The board intensively avoided some unnecessary charges,” he said, but assured that pilgrims from the state would enjoy the best accommodations, feeding and luxurious transportation while in the Holy land. Bobboyi emphasised that the announcement of the Hajj fare, showed  that all arrangements for the successful 2019 Hajj exercise had been completed. ” From this announcement, the board  will  no longer accept any part payment from the Intending Pilgrims. ” Those  intending pilgrims who have not completed payment of the Hajj fare should now do so and those that are yet to pay must pay the complete amount. “The board will close the Hajj payment on May 30, 2019  to enable it remit the money to the National  Hajj Commission for appropriate action,” the executive secretary said. He said that 2,601 Hajj seats had been allocated to the state for the 2019 pilgrimage in Saudi Arabia.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .