 Outgoing Presidenty Mrs Fatima Tinubu, dressing the incoming President, Mrs Adeorike Durosimi-Etti with insignia of office  Present at the auspicious event was the publisher of The Guardian newspaper, Lady Maiden Ibru, former deputy governors of Lagos State, Princess Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire, Kofoworola Bucknor-Akerele, Sarah Adebisi Sosan, Bintu Fatima Tinubu, former President of the club, Sir Olu Okeowo amongst other dignitaries. Speaking at the event, president of Cosmopolitan Women Club, Adeorike Durosinmi-Etti expressed great displeasure over the absence of free education and proper care for the less-privileged in acquiring education in the country, which gave rise to the scholarship initiative. “We are bothered about the dearth of education among our youths and we want to contribute our own quota to the society. We are not limited to only the physically challenged alone, but also able-bodied persons and to those who lack the necessary funds to further their education”, she said. While revealing the success of the scholarship scheme, she said some students like Uduak Essien, Chioma Duru and Joshua Monday have all been enrolled into Queens College, Federal Government College Ijanikin and Pacelli School for the Blind to further their education. “We’re committed to do more and once we start, we are going to fund them up to tertiary level. As long as they are able to go on, we are ready to go the distance with them. We are not stopping at a particular level, we want to see that they achieve their peak at their chosen career so we will monitor their performances and evaluate them periodically.” While reacting to the state of educational system in the country, a former deputy Governors of Lagos State lamented government’s neglect, inadequacies and failures in the educational system. Sarah Sosan revealed to The Guardian that “the situation with education in the country is highly displeasing because what is supposed to be done is not being done, in terms of funding and infrastructure, you will find many schools falling apart. Why? Our leadership has failed; we are not doing enough. If I have another chance in government, basic education will have to be restored properly.” In the same vein, Senator Kofoworola Bucknor-Akerele decried the situation with the less privileged that are in plain sight of respective governments. She noted that so many children are out of school, begging and crawling on the streets without help from anybody. “If these set of people were educated, they will be able to help themselves. The effort of the government so far in terms of investment in education in Nigeria has been zero. The government is not even doing anything for the privileged let alone for those who are suffering from disabilities. This government is not looking after the people in this country and what this club has done is a worthy cause”. Publisher of The Guardian newspaper, Lady Maiden Ibru reiterated the need to concentrate the country’s economic resources on education both in public and private schools in Nigeria and also encourage the admission of less privileged students in government schools free of charge. “I think the government should compel both federal, state schools and even private ones to admit two or more of these less privileged children into school free of charge. That will be matching words to action,” she said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .