 Source: google  According to them, the menace has taken new dimensions, as more Nigerians; including businesses are falling prey almost on a daily basis. They disclosed that criminals are now launching attacks, especially malwares on mobile devices across all channels. A report from IBM confirmed that over 138 billion apps have been downloaded since 2014. The report noted that mobile malware is growing and becoming the new form of attack. It disclosed that at every given time, malicious code is infecting 11.6 million mobile devices. This implies that the mobile devices and apps relied on are under threat. Also, 97 per cent and 87 per cent of top paid Android and IOS apps have been hacked so far. This challenge came on the heels of a disclosure yesterday by Facebook that about 1.5 billion WhatsApp users across the globe may likely report several degrees of breaches. Chief Executive Officer (CEO), ITANDT Solutions limited, Akpos Okoro, advised businesses to be more proactive in taking security measures against malwares. Speaking during the Enterprise Security workshop on Enterprise ICT Security Challenges in partnership with IBM, Okoro added that cyber security firms should collaborate and build a stronger force against cyber criminals.
   
“Cyber criminals work as group so to be ahead of them, we need to collaborate. There are many cloud solutions that organisations can employ. We are now in a cyber-world and we need to automate all business processes to be at par with technology innovations,” he added.
   
Urging businesses to be cyber ready, the CEO noted that there are increasing concerns about threats but solutions are available to manage them per time.  The CISO stressed that government is working on having one data platform rather than different customer data collation.  “The DPC understands that the vulnerability may have enabled a malicious actor to install unauthorized software and gain access to personal data on devices which have WhatsApp installed,” the regulator said in a statement.
  
“WhatsApp are still investigating as to whether any WhatsApp EU user data has been affected as a result of this incident,” the DPC said.
  
Cyber security experts said the vast majority of users were unlikely to have been affected.
  
Earlier, the Financial Times reported that vulnerability in WhatsApp allowed attackers to inject spyware on phones by ringing up targets using the app’s phone call function.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .