The police have confirmed the death of 23 persons in a retaliatory attack on Tunga and Kabaje villages of Kaura-Namoda Local Council of Zamfara by suspected bandits in the early hours of yesterday. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, SP Mohammed Shehu, said: “It is true that the bandits killed 23 persons in the attack. “At the moment, peace has been restored in the affected areas and a combined team of mobile and regular police, the Army and Air Force are on surveillance in the region.” Earlier, the council chairman, Alhaji Lawal Isa, said the hoodlums, numbering over 100 and riding on motorcycles, invaded the two settlements when residents were going to their farms. He hinted that the bandits may have retaliated the killing of one of their suspected informants he simply identified as Anas by vigilantes. Isa said unknowingly to Anas, he was trailed by his killers when he picked a wife and child of a suspected bandit at Angwan Sarki village to take them to the man in the bush on his motorcycle. “The vigilance group members blocked the rider and killed all three instantly on Monday and at about 5.pm. The following morning, the gang invaded the villages and killed the victims,” he told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN). In a related development, the Nigerian Army has neutralised two Boko Haram terrorists while attempting to cross into Sambisa Forest along the Gwoza-Dure road in Borno State. In a statement yesterday in Maiduguri, Army Spokesman, Col. Sagir Musa, said the incident occurred on Sunday, as troops of 7 Division embarked on patrol of “Operation Hallaka Dodo.’’ He stated that the terrorists were fleeing with supplies for their fellow insurgents when the troops engaged them in a fierce gun battle. According to Musa, assorted drugs and medicines were also recovered from them. “Although the situation within the general area of the Division was calm, the operation was being conducted by all brigades and battalions in their areas,” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .