 Segun Odegbami  That’s the group I went into politics to wake up, being one of them myself, empowered with a clear vision to drive our collective dreams to fruition and develop the country in the process.It was a new and different message even though the goals were the same as with every other politician in the country. 
 
So, my friend’s question was valid. 
I am afraid to admit that my first reaction is that my message did not sink. It did not resonate with the targeted young people. They were deaf to the message. It was not backed with money – or how to make it quickly. 
 
At the end of my adventure, my greatest inclination is to admit to myself that there is little hope. With what I saw and experienced in the local communities, with the total lack of disconnect between the government and the people at the grassroots, I have little faith left that Nigeria will emerge successfully as a great nation and be the leading light of the Black race on earth through the present political structures and orientation. 
 
To say I am not tired of the whole issue of a lack of understanding of what sport can do for a people and a country in the present world system in Nigeria is a frustrating understatement. 
 
Why can’t our leaders see the evidences all around us every day and everywhere you turn? 
Of all human institutions and activities, sport is one of those thriving undisturbed, untouched and undiminished by the vagaries of human failures, divisions and differences in the world.
 
Although, several of my friends in the arts and entertainment industries also express similar passionate frustrations, it is sport that leads as a beacon of the power and possibilities as a potent tool to drive a global agenda. Sports, arts, leisure, hospitality, tourism, culture, film, music, and so on all fall under the common umbrella of entertainment.  Culture is critical but sport is potent. Their combination is a winning formula for the Black race on earth. 
 
Once a people lose their culture they lose their identity. Having surrendered who they really are for who they are not and can never become, they surrender their humanity and their place in the world! They abandon their ‘inferior’ language, traditions, and systems and embrace, without question or reservation, ‘superior’ foreign prescriptions, thus entering into an enslavement mental prison from which the Black person has been unable to extricate himself for over 600 years. That’s why and how, Africa and the Black race have remained at the bottom rung in virtually all fields (except a few) in the world. 
 
The few fields in which the Black person has succeeded in finding a certain level of equality, recognition and appreciation, and being able to compete on a seemingly equal footing, are in areas embedded in Culture – Education, Arts, Music, Film, Sports, Tourism, and, indeed, the entire Leisure and Entertainment industry. Sport still stands out as providing the highest levels of opportunity – unbridled and unstoppable. 
 
Incidentally, the entertainment sector is also a huge part of what drives happiness, wellness, friendships, peace, harmony and most importantly, even business in the world. It is the one sector that has ‘resisted’ divisions and separatism through their power to transcend man-created differences and divisions in the world. 
 
The Power of Sport is all around us, in every child, in every home, everywhere on the planet. Yet, we do not see it in Nigeria, the largest Black Nation on earth, with the largest population of a people naturally endowed with the physicality that could make them become the best with the benefits converted into additional economic gains that can propel the rapid development of their environments?  
 
Nothing holds Africa back from becoming the healthiest and safest place to live, to work, to recreate and to invest in the world. Nothing holds Africa back but the people and their lack of appreciation of what sport, an important resource that the continent has in overabundance, can do to change their place in the world. Kenyans, Ethiopians, Jamaicans, and even South Africans have been showing all a clear path to those possibilities. Africa only needs to build on them, be creative, be wise and spread the good news and works around the continent.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .