In continuation of its fight against Malaria and as part of activities marking this year’s World Malaria Day with the theme, “Zero malaria starts with me”, Reckitt Benckiser (RB) joined forces with the National Malaria Elimination Program (NMEP), Lagos and Abia State Governments, to scale up action on the elimination of malaria in Nigeria. Speaking at the press briefing in Abuja to commemorate the day, Marketing Director, RB West Africa, Leferink Aliza, said the collaborations are part of numerous activities by the company to end the prevalence of malaria in Nigeria and Africa as a whole. She said the partnership with the State and Federal Governments, which has been on-going for years, further demonstrates the company’s efforts and commitment at different levels in the fight to ensure a malaria free country. Brand Manager, West Africa, Reckitt Benckiser, Phoebe Larry Izamoje explained that, through the grassroots community engagement, RB educates communities on the importance of hygiene and how the simple habit of maintaining clean surroundings and drainages can significantly help to reduce malaria exposure. Reiterating Mortein’s commitment to eradicating Malaria, Phoebe stated that they have been at the forefront of the fight against Malaria in Nigeria. She added that they do more than talk about malaria prevention once a year, collaborating with doctors in running free Malaria testing and consultation in major markets and are also going round communities to sensitize and educate on the immense benefits of maintaining a clean environment and use of Mortein. Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole, in his address said this year’s campaign aims at drawing significant attention to the need to completely eradicate the malaria scourge in the country and commended all stakeholders for their work and sustained support in the fight against malaria through collaborations with the government. He therefore pledged the Federal government’s continued commitment to working with all stakeholders to ensure total eradication of malaria in the country.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .