 Scale of justice  The EMEA guide provides researched coverage in 85 countries, and over 2,700 ranked law firms with updated, impartial, third party opinion on the leading law firms and lawyers in countries across the regions. AELEX stayed in the lead for Dispute Resolution; Energy and Natural Resources; Shipping and Transport; Commercial, Corporate and M&A; Banking, Finance and Capital Markets. Eight of the firm’s lawyers were recognised as being proficient and exemplary in their various areas as they were ranked as ‘Leading Individuals’ and ‘Next Generation Lawyers’. Funke Adekoya, (SAN), was recognised as a ‘Commercial and Tax Arbitration expert’. She leads the Dispute resolution practice, which was ranked Tier 1 and was acknowledged as ‘highly professional and knowledgeable’ in representing a vast array of foreign and local clients. Adedapo Tunde-Olowu, also received strong recommendations and was ranked as a ‘Leading Individual’ in Dispute Resolution alongside Adekoya’. Additionally, Davidson Oturu, was ranked as a ‘Next Generation Lawyer’, and was described as ‘highly professional’ in his handling of different matters for a broad spectrum of clients. Also, the firm partner, Soji Awogbade FEI’, was recognised as ‘Leading Individual’ for his immense track record in Energy and Natural Resources, which was ranked Tier 1. The team was described as having ‘…a deep understanding of the energy industry’ and ‘a highly commendable sense of commitment, urgency and diligence’. Partners Lawrence Fubara Anga and Theophilus Emuwa were ranked as ‘Leading Individuals’ in the Commercial, Corporate and M&A practice, which was ranked Tier 1. The teams experience and skill was highlighted in key transactions, with Partner Chinyerugo Ugoji also ranked as a ‘Next Generation Lawyer’. The Shipping and Transport practice was ranked Tier 1 and is led by Partner Lawrence Fubara Anga, a ‘Leading Individual’. The team was described as ‘very professional and competent’ and ‘possessing expertise in all aspects of shipping and aviation law’. Managing Associate, Akinloye Ajayi, was also ranked as a ‘Next Generation Lawyer’ for his work with the team. AELEX is a full service commercial and litigation firm with 9 partners and over 60 associates. It has offices across West Africa – Lagos, Abuja, Port Harcourt and Accra. Lawyers have qualification to practice in Ghana, Nigeria, New York, Texas, England and Wales. ǼLEX was established in 2004 through the merger of the practice of a Senior Advocate of Nigeria and three other leading commercial law firms in Nigeria. The merger established one of the largest most diversified law practices in West Africa. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .