 Gov. Abiola Ajimobi of Oyo  Ajimobi, who boasted that he was leaving a legacy of tranquility and development in a state hitherto described as “a garrison state,” said: “I also want to thank the people of Oyo State for allowing me to be the first governor to do two terms of eight years; it has never happened in Oyo State.” The governor, who spoke to State House Correspondents after he met with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa in Abuja, added: “I am leaving a legacy of peace and security in Oyo. At a time, Oyo State was seen as what you call a garrison state, but today, Oyo state is one of the peaceful states in Nigeria. “If our government has not done anything at all, we have brought peace, tranquility and development to Oyo State. It’s been a worthwhile venture…” “Many of us could seat back and say I retired as a managing director of a multinational, but if we seat back and play the ostrich, we will see that evil will always triumph when men of goodwill fail to act. “I want to say that Ajumobi came, brought peace to Oyo State and added value to the socio-economic development of the state and to Nigeria in general.” The outgoing governor, however, expressed regret for his inability to execute more projects that would impact on the general wellbeing of the people during the two terms of his administration, noting: “I think I regret the fact that I have not been able to do everything I wanted to do. I wish our people could be more understanding and more patient. Anytime you try to make a change, people resist change, even if it is good for them. I wish I had been in politics 20 years ago.” He said he was at the Villa to thank the President for the support he accorded all the states, particularly during the period of scarcity of funds to execute projects, pay salaries and meet other socioeconomic demands, saying: “He was on hand to help all of us. He supported us by releasing funds to all of us and as at today, most of the states, including Oyo, do not owe salaries. “He also assisted us with social infrastructure that is extending the welfare nets to the states. That is why I am here to thank Mr. President, because in another two days, I am going for Umrah and by the time I come back, I won’t be in office as governor. I am going to Umrah to thank God. When I came in, I pleaded with God to give me the opportunity to serve peacefully and that He did.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .