 Falz the Bahd Guy  From the stage design, lighting, choreographed dances and acrobatic displays to the spectacular entrance of Falz, endless supply of hits on the set list and wild crowd reactions, the show lived up to expectation, with celebrities such as Omotola Jalade Ekeinde, Richard Mofe Damijo, Alex Ekubo, Toke Makinwa, DJ Cuppy, Beverly Naya, Frank Donga, Bolanle Olukanni, Stephanie Coker, IK Ogbonna, Chigul, Deyemi Okanlawon and others in attendance. Of course, Falz’s parents Mr. and Mrs Femi Falana also witnessed the concert. Also in attendance were the Governor of Lagos State, Akinwunmi Ambode, Lagos State Commissioner of Information and Strategy, Steve Ayorinde, President of Nigeria Football Federation, Amaju Pinnick and others. To those, who witnessed the event, it was an evening of loaded fun and entertainment. Just when fans had started yearning for a return of the gig, Falz just announced plans to host the second edition of The Falz Experience. Billed for June 8, at the Eko Convention Centre, the five-hour live concert will feature performances by Falz with support from his friends including Simi, Ycee and others to the delight of over 10,000 fans being expected at the event. With early bird tickets already sold out, it is expected that the show will surpass the record-breaking 100 million views recording by the debut edition in 2017. The maiden edition of the show, which reportedly gulped a whooping sum of N300 million, elevated the concert experience in Nigeria and the follow-up edition promises to be even more groundbreaking. For this edition, which will also be produced by Livesport Productions, fans will be able to suggest ideas to the two-time AMVCA winner about what they would like to see at the show with the hashtag #WhatWillFalzDo. From the songs they’d like to hear and even which version of Falz they would like to see, Falz is putting the power in the hands of the fans to help him create an engaging concert like no other. Explaining why he decided to put fans at the centre of the gig, Falz said, “My fans are the core of my career. I’m nothing without their love and support and that’s why I’m putting the Falz Experience together, just for them. I would love to get ideas and comments from them on how we can make The Falz Experience bigger and better, The idea behind The Falz Experience 2 is to bring all their thoughts together to build a fantastic show. It’s a music concert that will incorporate different elements of my art, with support from the many colleagues I have collaborated with and of course, my fans.” Falz (real name Folarin Falana) is a law graduate from the University Of Reading whose career began in secondary school when he, along with friends, established a musical group called ‘The School Boys’. Years down the line, Falz has more than proved himself as not only a talented artiste but one with versatility. Singles such as Something Light, Soft Work, Karishika, Wehdone Sir, Bad Gang, Soldier amongst others and a critically acclaimed album, Moral Instruction, have earned him not only organic airplay but have helped carve a niche in the Nigerian entertainment industry. Also known for his antics as Segun on the popular series Jenifa’s Diary, Falz is the proud owner of several awards. Some of which are: Best in a Comedy Series/ Movie for the 2018 and 2016 Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards ((AMVCA), Viewers’ Choice Best New International Act for the 2016 BET Awards, Album of the Year for the 2016 City People Entertainment Awards, Best Afro Hip Hop Video for the 9th Nigeria Music Video Awards, as well as several nominations. Premier creative collective, Livespot, will be producing The Falz Experience for the second time in a row, which should come as exciting news for the fans. Livespot became a household name after brilliantly producing Darey’s Love Like A Movie concert series. 