Fidelity Bank About 77 customers of Fidelity Bank Plc, who emerged winners in its Get Alert in Millions Season 3 promo shared cash prizes of N110 million. The six-month promo, which was the eighth in 12 years, also had 108 other customers getting consolation prizes of television sets, refrigerators and generators, beside instant gifts.
At the grand draw, which marked the end of the promo, in Lagos, a Seaman, John Silus Poubo, of Garrisson Branch, in Port-Harcourt, emerged the grand prize winner of N10 million in the electronic draw. Other winners of the day were Ibenegbu Kingsley and Otubelu Uchechukwu, who won N3million each, while Akpamgbo Stella, Lagos Zone; Dokpesi Aleakhue and Okoye Ndubuisi, South South got N2million each. The Deputy Managing Director of the bank, Mohammed Balarabe, told the gathering of lottery regulators, Consumer Protection Council, and the media that the winnings were the bank’s promises at the onset of the promotions. “We said we are going to make 77 millionaires of our customers and planned to get a lot of others for our consolation prizes. We have kept to that promise, and we have given out cash prizes worth about N110 million, and about 108 have won several consolation prizes. “Our desire at the end of the day is to inculcate this culture of savings, because that is what will bring about economic development in our country. But more importantly, at the individual level, it is a way to get people to save towards the ‘rainy day,” he said. The bank’s Executive Director, Shared Services and Product, Chijioke Ugochukwu, described the promo period as an exciting journey in the last six months. According to her, it was filled with a lot of innovations from the bank, including the instant weekly rewards, as well as for the first time in Nigeria and also in Africa, the Quick Response (QR) code account opening, which recorded huge adoption and digitisation. “We have given out airtime worth N5.261 million and 3,803 customers have benefitted from this instant rewards,” she said. In the monthly draw, just before the grand finale, there were eight winners of N1 million cash prizes- w Accounts and Finance Staff Welfare and Mohammed Rufai (South West); Emmanuel Agboeze, and Dada Shola (Abuja); Benue State University Good Shepherd Chaplaincy Maintenance Account and Indigenous Timber Shed Drivers Association (North); Oluebube Nweke, and Ikobong Michael (Lagos); and Edeh Nwodo (South East). To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .