A beauty product firm, House of Tara International in partnership with Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF) has empowered 30 deportees with make-up entrepreneurial skills and internship placements in different beauty outfits. The deportees were illegal migrants from different countries – Italy, Cameroon, Libya, Togo, were empowered through the Skills Development for Youth Employment Programme held for five weeks in Lagos. Speaking at the graduation ceremony in Alausa, Ikeja, administrator of House of Tara School of Fashion, Keji Kuti said the partnership with LSETF was aimed at helping the deportees to be self-reliant and be responsible people. Kuti disclosed that the best 10 of the graduands would be absorbed to work with the company while the remaining 20 will be placed on internship programmes at different make-up and beauty outfits. House of Tara official Felicia Okpala presenting start-up pack to best beauty graduating student Clement Tina at the Skills Development for Youth Employment Programme held in Alausa, Ikeja, Lagos. While congratulating the beneficiaries, she stated that they have chosen the right profession which is “hot cake” in the country. “Regardless of the season, make-up artist are hot cakes. The graduates choose the right profession because there are a lot of ceremonies such as weddings, burials, birthdays, dinner parties going on every day.” Kuti said. Permanent Secretary, Lagos State wealth and employment ministry, Abidemi Raji urged the graduands to be diligent and consistent with the skills they have. “The journey of a woman begins with herself. The life of mankind is the ability to key into opportunities of whatever is given to him/her.  I wish you success in all your endeavours. Congratulations,” Raji said. House of Tara International awarded the best graduate Clement Tina with a beauty centre pack, which contained products worth N50,000 for start. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .