 [FILE PHOTO] Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar III  Sultan Abubakar in a statement issued by Chairman, Advisory Committee on Religious Affairs, Sultanate Council, Sokoto Prof. Sambo Junaidu, said sighting of the new moon will signal the commencement of fasting month of Ramadan. The statement said the Sultan said today, which is equivalent to 29th day of Sha’aban the eight lunar month is the day to look for the new moon of Ramadan. However, whether or not the moon is sighted today, fasting will commence tomorrow, which automatically marks the first of Ramadan. Meanwhile, some Muslim clerics have reminded political leaders that the power they wield is a trust given to them by Allah, Who expects them to use it judiciously to serve Him and Nigerians. They, therefore, urged them to rescue the country from poverty, as well as imbibe virtues of Ramadan. The Rivers State Islamic Leader/Vice President General, Rivers State Council for Islamic Affairs, Alhaji (Amb) Nasir Adebowale Uhor called on Muslims to seize the opportunity of Ramadan to increase their fixed deposit accounts, while here on earth by doing everything possible to live a good life for Allah and shun all vices. He said: “For, if 70 percent of all Muslims in the country can achieve even 50 percent success in this month, Nigeria will be far better for it. The country’s progress, development and stability are in the hands of Muslims. The Executive Secretary/Chief Executive Officer of Muslim Ummah of Southwest Nigeria (MUSWEN), Professor Dawud Noibi, while calling on Muslims to regard the occasion as an opportunity to serve and improve themselves, especially in this era of change, said, “I do not mean it in a political sense. Everybody thinks that things have not been as they should be and think that change must be better. If the lack of change had been as a result of lack of self-control, Ramadan is an opportunity to overcome that challenge.” Calling on government, especially those that will be sworn in this month, the Chief Imam of Anu Oluwapo, Orile, Oshodi, Lagos, and President of Jamatul Islamiyya of Nigeria/Overseas, Arc. Taofeek Wunmi Agbaje, said: “Those who are occupying one political office or the other, as well as those to be sworn in this month, should know that millions of Nigerians suffered under the rain and sun to cast their votes for them. It is God’s will that they should be there. What that means is that God has put them in that position of authority, not to serve self, but the people of Nigeria. God expects that they should be patriotic in whatever they are doing.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .