 Osinbajo at the 2019 May Day Parade at Eagle Square, Abuja, where he acknowledged cheers from workers during the parade. Photo/Twitter/ asorock  During a May Day celebration yesterday in Abuja, he said government was committed to making power available to most Nigerians, adding that the sector needed a lot of re-engineering and re-working to deliver service. He thanked Nigerians for re-electing the current administration, pledging that government would reciprocate the gesture by improving the quality of life through building of infrastructure. His words: “At the just concluded general elections, Nigerians and indeed Nigerian workers gave our administration another mandate to govern them. We shall reciprocate this electoral gesture by focusing on the critical issues that will improve the quality of lives and livelihoods of Nigerians. These include the building of infrastructure, roads and rail, hydroelectric power, and also reforming key driving sectors of the national economy in order to put the country on a sustainable path of economic growth and prosperity.” The organised labour however held a contrary opinion, stating that the President Muhammadu Buhari administration had not done enough to better the lives of the citizens. It urged the nation’s number one citizen to tackle unemployment, insecurity, poverty, poor electricity supply and put the economy on the path of growth. President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Ayuba Wabba, while commending Buhari for keeping to his promise of signing the new minimum wage into law, urged the three tiers of government to ensure its immediate implementation.” However, true to The Guardian’s report yesterday that the Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige stayed  away from the Workers’ Day event on account of the disagreement between him and the labour movement over the non-inauguration of Frank Kokori as board chairman of the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF), the Anambra State ex-governor was no where to be found near the venue, with no explanation from the ministry. But his Special Assistant Media, Nwachukwu Obidiwe, said his principal was indisposed and had been absent from work for the past one week. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .