A Joint Security Team of Nigeria with Niger counterparts during a meeting at Dakana, Niger Republic on Thursday, May 16……. PHOTO: Nigeria Army A Joint Security Team of Nigeria has strengthened their inter-border relations with their neighbouring counterparts from the Niger Republic to curb security challenges of both countries. The Nigeria security team consists of the Nigerian Army, Nigerian Police, State Security Services, Nigerian Immigration Service, Nigerian Custom Service and Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps. Spokesman of the Nigeria Army Sagir Musa in a statement said both countries reached an agreement of ensuring better inter-border ties during a visit to the Niger Republic on Thursday, May 16. He said, “the aim of the visit was to discuss further modalities to enhance and promote joint military/security inter-border relations among the security agencies of both countries.” Musa said the meeting held in Dakana, Niger Republic, was fruitful as the security team of both countries “brainstormed on the unfolding security challenges in Sokoto State and environs.” He explained that the security threats along the international boundary between the Niger Republic and Nigeria necessitated the establishment of a joint military border patrol in September 2018. “The main objective of the joint security venture was to checkmate the menace of cross border armed banditry and other criminalities across the nations common porous borders,” Musa said. The Joint Security Team from Nigeria was led by the Commander 1 Brigade, Brigadier General LKN Udeagbala who represented the General Officer Commanding 8 Division. Others in the team are Commander 8 Division Garrison Brigadier General IOO Olotta, Commander 8 Military Intelligence Brigade, Brigadier General J Maina and the Commanding Officer 26 Battalion Lieutenant Colonel IB Sheriff, Commissioner of Police Sokoto State CP I Kaoje, Director Department of State Security Services Sokoto State Mr Ibrahim Salama, Comptroller of Customs Mr BU Gimba and heads of Immigration Services and Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps in Sokoto State Mr ES Fagbamigbe and Mr UM Bala respectively. Nigerien representatives include the Commanding Officer Special Intervention Command, Lieutenant Colonel Saminou Mani, Commanding Officer Lieutenant Colonel Siddo Seyni and other officers. The Nigerian team used the opportunity of the meeting to visit refugees at Internally Displaced Persons Camp in Dankano. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .