 Senator Ekweremadu at the commissioning of  Kanawa-Jagali Road, with a spur to Kuri, Gombe contructed by my friend, Governor Ibrahim Dankwambo. Also at the commissioning were the Deputy Governor, His Excellency, Charles Illiya; the Emir of Deba, HRH Ahmed Mohammed Usman and members of Gombe State Executive Council. Kudos, Your Excellency. Photo/Facebook//IamEkweremadu  Ekweremadu stated this in Gombe on Saturday while inaugurating a 37km road in Deba, Yamaltu-Deba Local Government Area of the state. He said that the state witnessed developmental strides because of the peace that prevailed in the area. Ikweremadu added that such should be the model for other states in the country. He noted that the greatest thing any governor could give to his people was to ensure that there was peace, adding that Gov. Ibrahim Dankwambo of Gombe had done a lot to ensure peace in Gombe. “Nigeria needs peace to develop as a people because when the people co-exist peacefully, it is easy to develop. “ I was told Gombe state is the most peaceful in the Northeast and I believe it because where there is peace, there is progress and that is why the state is Developing. Senator Ekweremadu at the commissioning of  Kanawa-Jagali Road, with a spur to Kuri, Gombe contructed by my friend, Governor Ibrahim Dankwambo. Also at the commissioning were the Deputy Governor, His Excellency, Charles Illiya; the Emir of Deba, HRH Ahmed Mohammed Usman and members of Gombe State Executive Council. Kudos, Your Excellency. Photo/Facebook//IamEkweremadu  “ The model that worked for Gombe can work for any other state and with that we can deal with it (insecurity),” he said. He commended the good people of the state for their support for the administration of Gov. Dankwambo in the last eight years. Earlier, Dankwambo thanked Sen. Ekweremadu for honouring the visit to the state. Dankwambo stressed that the road would ease the hardship that was hitherto being experienced while boosting the economic activities.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .