Nyesom Wike Politics fuels banditry, kidnapping, others, says Buratai Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike, has alleged that a General Officer Commanding (GOC), has been running an oil bunkering squad to finance his ambition to be appointed Chief of Army Staff. He cautioned that any attempt to appoint the GOC as Chief of Army Staff, would spell doom for the nation’s failing security architecture. The governor, who has had a frosty relationship with the GOC, particularly during the general elections made the allegation when the Commander of Joint Task Force Operation Delta Safe, Real Admiral Akinjide Akinrinade, visited him at Government House, Port Harcourt yesterday.“The GOC is doing illegal bunkering, which he is using to finance his quest to emerge as the country’s Chief of Army Staff. He has his own team making money for him through illicit oil bunkering,” he said. Responding, Akinrinade commended Wike for supplying gunboats, security vehicles and finances for security operations in the state and its environs and assured the governor that the Joint Task Force will not relent in fighting crime in the state. When contacted, spokesman of Deputy Director, Army Public Relations 6th Division, Colonel Aminu Iliyasu, declined to comment on the allegation.Meanwhile, Chief of Army Staff; Lt-Gen. Tukur Buratai, has alleged that some politicians were fueling the security challenges, including banditry, kidnapping and Boko Haram terrorism in the country. Buratai, who received House of Representatives Committee on Army at Operation Lafiya Dole Headquarters, Maiduguri, attributed the incessant attacks by armed groups in Northwest and North Central states to the fallout of the 2019 general elections. “The myriads of security challenges we are facing right now in the Northwest, North Central and other parts of the country, I believe, are a fall-out of the recent General Elections,” he said, adding that there are political class interests.He, therefore, urged the National Assembly leadership to call on some politicians to order to consider national interest above personal or political ones. Chairman, House Committee on Army, Rimamnde Kwewum said: “The committee was in the state to end its oversight function on Army; so as to present its report to the incoming Ninth National Assembly. We also visited the military hospital and other army locations in the state capital, Maiduguri.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .