Cultists on rampage No fewer than 11 persons have been killed in different parts of Benin City, Edo State following renewed cult clashes between rival groups. The Guardian learnt that the latest killing among members of Eiye and Black Axe has led to the killing of three persons at Isibor Junction on Saint Saviour Road near Third Junction around Upper Sakponba Area of the city. A member of one of the group was killed along Murtala Muhammed Way, while another was murdered along Idaho Street, off Sakponba Road. Edo State Commissioner of Police (CP), Danmallam Abubakar Muhammed mobilised his men to the area overwhelmed by cult violence a view to arresting those behind the killings. The renewed killings started on Sunday night when a victim was reportedly killed on Iyobosa Street opposite Edo College at a place popularly called Aso Rock, while another victim was killed around Etiosa at Lucky Junction. It was gathered that another was killed along Agbor Road near NNPC depot, while another person was slain on Monday on a street opposite the NNPC depot. Two other persons were killed on Monday night at Ekiosa along Murtala Muhammed Way, while one was killed at Owoba near ICC School. Efforts to contact the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Chidi Nwabuzor to confirm the incidences were unsuccessful as at the time of filing this report. Besides, the Edo State Government has donated 10 vehicles to the State Command of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) and the Nigerian Army, as part of Governor Godwin Obaseki-led administration’s attempt to curb crimes in the state. While presenting the vehicles to the CP, Deputy Governor Philip Shaibu said the cars were donated to the security agencies to check crime at flashpoints identified across the state. Meanwhile, suspected herdsmen have attacked villages in Ardo-Kola Local Government Areal of Taraba, sacking several communities. The attacks left no fewer than seven persons dead and scores injured in Murbai, Kisbap, Sembe and Yawai-Abbare villages. The attacks, which occurred in the early hours of yesterday was said to have been carried out by suspected armed herdsmen who The Guardian learnt stormed the villages in their large numbers. Confirming the report the state CP, Alkasim Sanusi, said the command had been briefed on the incident and security operatives have been deployed to the communities to restore normalcy. He added that investigation has commenced, assuring that those behind the attacks would be apprehended and prosecuted. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .