FC IfeanyiUbah. PHOTO: authorityngr.com ‘Hospitalised, loses $2,600, other valuables during attack’
The Chairman of Delta Force Football Club of Asaba, Emmanuel Chidi-Okonkwo has urged the League Management Company (LMC) to sanction FC IfeanyiUbah over an attack he allegedly received in the hands of the home fans during a league match at the Anambra State team’s stadium in Nnewi on Sunday. The match ended 2-1 in favour of FC Ifeanyi Ubah, but Chidi-Okonkwo says the home team won because one of their top officials intimidated referees after the half time break. Among other things, Chidi-Okonkwo claimed he lost a gold plated Rolex wristwatch, a gold chain and his wallet, which contained $2,600 and 320 Ghanaian CEDIs during the attack. Speaking with The Guardian from his hospital bed in Asaba yesterday, the Delta Force boss said: “It was an organised mob action, and I am holding the chairman of FC IfeanyUbah, Chukwuma D. Ubah and one of the players, Uche Onuorah responsible for the incident. We saw hell at the stadium. “The score was 1-1 and in the second half, I saw one of my players, Uche Onuorah warming up to come in for FC IfeanyiUbah. I was surprised to see him wearing their jersey, and I went to complain to the Match Commissioner. Onuorah is my player. In December last year, Onuorah told us he was going to attend to his sick wife. We gave him money, but since then, we have not seen him. I have made several efforts to reach him, but to no avail. The LMC should apply its rules here because this is a case of double registration by Onuorah. “There was no way we could have lost the match, but the chairman intimidated the referees, and he also instigated the fans against us. At a point, I went to Chukwuma to remind him that I am also from Anambra State, and that he should allow the match to go smoothly. But he didn’t listen. The referees became afraid, and started making dubious calls against us. “As we speak, I can’t raise my right hand. I am still in the hospital receiving treatment. FC IfeanyiUbah should pay for all that I lost.” Asked why he traveled to a local league match with foreign currencies in his wallet, Chidi-Okonkwo said: “I just returned from a foreign trip, and I decided to go straight to the match venue. Nobody knew I had such amount of money inside my wallet. I was interacting with a friend on my way from the stadium when Onuorah came to accuse me of being biased towards him. And then the fans started beating me from left and right.” Efforts to speak with the chairman of FC IfeanyiUbah yesterday were unsuccessful. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .