 PricePointe Wholesale Club. PHOTO/TWITTER/OldMutual_NG  The 8000 square meters indoor warehouse is the first of six locations it plans to set up to help its members get products at manufacturers’ prices, while cutting out traditional middlemen in the process. The new entrant, modelled after the United States of America-based, Costco, and Sam’s Club, would deal strictly in wholesale offerings to customers comprising retailers, families, and individuals that are registered on the platform. Speaking at the launch, Founder and Chief Executive Officer of PricePointe Wholesale Club, Mr. Tayo Williams, said: “PricePointe Club is pioneering this world-class multi-store multi-brand to provide a one-stop lifestyle shopping experience for Nigerians. These include those who want to shop things in bulk conveniently, at a world class environment that’s convenient for them and their families, and most importantly, at really great prices.” “With products and services sourced directly from manufacturers and providers, PricePointe Club members will enjoy groceries, household items, appliances, insurance, flight tickets, petrol, diesel, and more at massive discounts you won’t find anywhere else; all of which are open to PricePointe club members. Retailers can also buy less than a carton but still enjoy Wholesale prices, as well as the convenient opportunity to shop from 6a.m. every day, including Sundays,” he added. The launch, in partnership with Ecobank, and its multi-featured digital payment solution, Ecobank Pay, as well as Old Mutual, also saw the emergence of winners in the raffle draws, which included prizes of rent up to N2million for one lucky winner, school fees up to N1million for two lucky kids, as well as free groceries, travel tickets, and auto insurance for a year. The PricePointe Wholesale Club flagship warehouse houses other services such as Tyre and battery centre, restaurants, dentistry, eye clinic, amongst others. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .