The rising wave of insecurity particularly the dimension of Kidnappings, banditry and wanton killings across the country became the subject matter of a three hour discussion between the Senate and the Acting Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, on Tuesday. Adamu’s presence at the Senate was sequel to an earlier invitation by the Senate after an exhaustive debate on security situations in the country. The invitation by the Senate, followed a motion sponsored by Shehu Sani, where he drew the attention of the Red Chamber to the increasing case of kidnapping along Abuja-Kaduna road. The IGP, arrived at the National Assembly complex at about 11am, but was ushered into the Senate chamber at about 11.22am by the Clerk to the Senate. The deliberations lasted till 2.15pm. Mr. Adamu is the first IGP to appear before the Senate since 2014. Immediate-past IGP, Mohammed Idris, repeatedly refused to appear before the Senate when he held sway between 2016 and 2019. Speaking on the outcome of the closed door meeting with the police boss, President of the Senate, Abubakar Bukola Saraki, who presided, said the upper legislative chamber would support the Force in addressing the insecurity situation. However, Saraki didn’t disclose if any arrangement was reached on how to address the issues. Saraki said: “The Senate in a closed door session was briefed by the acting Inspector-General of Police on armed banditry, kidnappings, robberies, terrorist activities and other security challenges in the country. “The Nigerian Police should ameliorate the situation and the challenges. We hereby hope to adress the menace squarely. “He (IGP) promised to address the areas that have to do with disciplining of officers that have been found wanting. Efforts will be taken to improve on the situation particularly on the Abuja-Kaduna axis and also on areas of intelligence and technology. “The Senate also promised and is committed that it is ready at anytime to give assistance to provide adequate funding that is required in order to make the police to be able to combat the necessary threats to our security.” Speaking to Senate Correspondents after the closed door meeting, the IGP said 10,000 men and officers will be recruited soon to beef up the capability of the Force. The Police boss, while responding to questions from newsmen, vowed that policemen found guilty in raping and molesting ladies arrested at various nightclubs will be face the wrath of the law. He said: “We are putting in place a strategy that works. The Senate has appreciated what we have presented and they are willing to enhance the strategy. The Senate has agreed to support all our activities to make the country secure. “Policing is dynamic. The number of personnel we have can never be enough. But the government is trying to recruit every year. This year, we have 10,000 to recruit. We will meet up with the required number. “The information you got about giving N100 billion to herdsmen to stop killing is from the social media. There was no discussion like that. The source of that information is not yet known. It is somebody’s imagination. On the raiding of night clubs by policemen in Abuja, Adamu said: “The raiding of nightclubs in Abuja was done by FCT task force. They came out to do their job and they reached out to police to support them and we did that. Women were arrested and convicted. It means that they committed an offence “The allegation that some policemen raped and molested them, we will set up a panel to investigate the issues. Anybody caught will face the law.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .