 St. Finbarrs’ College’s Principal, Mr. V.E Biyibi and captains of the winning schools at the prize presentation ceremony of the First Generation Heritage Colleges Association (LAFGHECA) Inter-Collegiate Games held at Yaba College of Technology, Sports Complex, Lagos State.  Federal Government College, Ijaniki won the boys category with five gold, three silver and five bronze medals, Federal Science and Technical College, Yaba came second with four gold, three silver and two bronze medals, while King’s College, Lagos placed third with two gold, three silver and three bronze medals.
 
Queen’s College, Yaba topped the girls’ category with five gold, three silver and sis bronze medals, while Federal Government College, Ijanikin, Lagos came second with three gold, six silver and one bronze, leaving Federal Science and Technical College, Yaba in third place with three gold, two silver and two bronze medals.
 
Medals and certificates were awarded to schools that came tops in their various events in both categories.Speaking at the championship, chairperson of LAFGHECA, Alhaja Risikat Yusuf said the event was organised to encourage students and also discover hidden talents. She commended the planning committee for a job well done and also their sponsors for their support to make it successful. “This boils down to the aim of the games which is to encourage the young minds and enforce a healthy lifestyle. Aside representing their various schools they should also engage in exercise in their various homes and schools as well,” she said.
  
Also speaking at the event, the Principal, Ansar-Ur-Deen College and treasurer of LAFGHECA, Mr. Adebambo T.O. urged the government to empower the youth, adding, “it is only when the youths are idle that they engage themselves in crime. But with sports the youths can burn their energy and be better citizens.”
 
Also speaking at the event, the principal of Queen’s College, Yaba, Dr. Tokunbo Yakubu-Oyinloye said it was an honour and a plus for the school, which has won the trophy back to back for the fifth time. She urged government to provide the necessary equipment and also encourage more sporting activities in her school.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .