 Commander, Nigerian Army Infantry Corps, Maj.-Gen. Stevenson Olabanji (left); Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai; and Commander, 1 Division, Maj-Gen. Faruk Yahaya, during the 2019 Nigerian Army Infantry Corps Conference in Jaji, Kaduna…yesterday.<br />  “The reinvigorated approach of joint operations in the state has so far resulted in the arrest of 22 criminals between the 19th  and 21st of May 2019,” an army spokesman Ayobami Oni-Orisan said in a statement on Wednesday. Oni-Orisan said the 22 criminals were arrested for various offences “ranging from armed robbery, banditry, possession and trafficking in hard drugs, and illegal possession of firearms amongst others.” He said on Sunday, a joint patrol team on patrol in Sokoto metropolis, busted a notorious armed robbery gang led by one Zayyanu aka ‘Dankane’ which has been terrorising residents of Sokoto township and environs. Similarly on Monday another joint patrol team, while on routine Patrol in Sokoto town arrested six suspected robbers “with assorted weapons and other illegal substances.” The army said it recovered 5 knives, 5 cutlasses, 4 mobile phones, 8 sim cards of various Service providers, 8 packs of Indian hemp, 10 packets of hard drugs, Assorted charms and 30 pieces of various keys from the six suspects. It said its patrol team along Gusau – Sokoto road also intercepted highly suspicious illegal aliens in a Toyota Avensis car conveying 8 Cameroonian nationals on their way to Niger Republic via Ilela border. “The individuals were without any valid identification and could not explain their mission in the area,” Oni-Orisan said. Also on Tuesday, a joint patrol team comprising of troops of 8 Division and other security agencies based on “credible information conducted a Cordon and Search operation in Gidan Dere Bypass area”. They arrested a suspected drug peddler who in turn, led the troops to the hideout of a notorius drug kingpin at Kofar Kware area of the city. After a diligent search conducted in the premises, the joint team recovered, 10 laptops, 22 different parcel sizes of substance suspected to be Indian hemp. Similarly, based on intelligence report, another cordon and search operation was equally conducted same day at Nakasari Barebare area of the metropolis and this led to the arrest of a suspected drug baron. Sokoto State has been hit by armed banditry, kidnapping, killings and other threats against the state’s security and stability.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .