Newly sworn-in governor of Kwara State Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq said he is ready to rebuild the state which has lacked development plans, policies and accountability under previous administrations. “What we have lacked before now are dependable and sustainable development plans, credible policies and policy discipline, accountability and transparency, a good sense of social justice and ability to expand social and political spaces that will promote tolerance, equality,” Abdulrazaq said in his inaugural address. “It is not in our tradition to shy away from challenges. We shall engage them and find solutions. We all know about the now legendary infrastructure deficits, decay and deprivations that our people have endured in the past 16 years.” Abdulrazaq’s victory at the 2019 governorship election in Kwara signalled the end of the revered Saraki dynasty in the state. Olushola Saraki before his death dictated the pace of politics in Kwara State. After his death, his son- Bukola Saraki, who later emerged governor and Nigeria Senate president for four years became the go-to man in the state. Consequently, the dynamics changed in this year’s election after the birth of ‘Otoge’ movement which means ‘enough’. The movement advocated a change in the state’s political landscape. “I cannot so easily forget how the collective will, courage and determination of our people, irrespective of class or religion initiated, nurtured and propelled the Otoge movement that was the foundation, soul and spirit of our victory at the polls,” Abdulrazaq said. Abdulrazaq opined that his emergence as governor was a proof that the people have decided “to take their destiny in their own hands and fashion an alternative narrative and quest for peace, progress, growth and development for themselves and future generations.” “You all fought against all odds and at great cost.” Abdulrazaq, who said his goal is not to lament over the ‘sad past’, but to ensure progress and sustainable development and notice a significant difference between progress and stagnation. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .