 Zainab Bulkachuwa<br />  Since confidence is sine qua non in criminal trials, legal practitioners are unanimous in their submission that Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa’s continued presence in the presidential election petition tribunal, would call to question, the integrity of the panel.  They equally stressed that the billowing cloud of likelihood of bias would only be diffused after the Court of Appeal President has recused herself from the tribunal, if she is not to embark on a pre-determined mission. While one of the lawyers specifically questions the value of justice that is lacking in confidence, another urged Bulkachuwa to toe the line of the late Justice Atinuke Ige, who did not wait for any application to be lodged before recusing herself from a matter involving her husband, Mr. Bola Ige, then Governor of Oyo State in the 1980s.
  
The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), which is the petitioner challenging the election of President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress (APC), last week asked Bulkachuwa, whose husband, Adamu Mohammed Bulkachuwa is a card-carrying member of the APC, and a Bauchi State senator-elect to recuse herself to forestall the possibility of bias in the process.  “It’s sad that that seems not to be the practice any more. After all, there are other competent justices of the Court of Appeal who can preside over the petition; and there’s a next most senior justice of the Court of Appeal, who can constitute the panel.“The whole purpose, actually, is to clear any possible doubt of bias. It’s not to guarantee that a litigant who raises it will be victorious as a matter of course. The success or failure of his matter must only depend on the merit of his case,” he explained.
  
Lagos-based lawyer, Mr. Chris Okeke, quoting the late Justice Chukwudifu Oputa of the Nigerian Supreme Court said that justice is rooted in confidence.“Of what value is justice if it is lacking in confidence? Confidence is so important that in criminal trials, the defendant would always indicate the willingness and decision to be tried in a particular court. Where this is lacking, it will be a clear evidence of absence of fair hearing.
  
“In my opinion, since a party to the dispute has indicated lack of confidence in Justice Bulkachuwa, it will only be proper if she recues herself from that panel. Where, however, she refuses, she has called the integrity of that panel, as well as any decision it will eventually arrive at to great question,” he said.This is the more important because her panel was empanelled to settle a dispute. “So, she will be creating a new dispute by her refusal to recuse herself from the membership of the panel. Thus, she would be said to have not resolved the first dispute, while creating a new one.
  
“In sum, it is procedurally and jurisprudentially correct where she recues herself from being a member of that panel. In her absence, another justice could be appointed into her place,” Okeke stated.The National President of the Committee for the Defence of Human Rights  (CDHR), Mr. Malachy Ugwummadu, also a legal practitioner said Bulkachuwa recusing herself is not only procedural, but consistent with both the Code of Conduct for Judicial Officers.
  
According to him, Section 36 (1) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) emphasises the need for a properly constituted court or tribunal established by law and dispenses justice within a reasonable time, but more importantly, a court constituted in such a manner as to guarantee its independence and impartiality. He said: “What is in issue is the likelihood of bias and not bias itself.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .