On season eight, episode four, die-hard fans of HBO’s hit series, Game of Thrones (GOT) were left a little disappointed with the blunder of leaving a Starbucks cup on the table. We get it, we would all love to go on a time travel trip if we get the chance but we have to draw a line right there because magic is out of our element. Yes, magic because how else can we explain the new blunder in the latest episode of GOT. Many fans were busy recoiling from the disappointment of the events that transpired in the fifth episode of the eight season of GOT. Some others were caught up in the excitement of the fire that Daenerys rained down on King’s Landing. The eagle-eyed fans were left nothing short of frustrated at having to spot the guffaw that the character of Jaime Lannister magically had his formerly chopped-off hand back. In case you forgot, he lost that hand in season three after pulling a “Do you even know who I am?” to save Brienne of Tarth from a group of soldiers. However, as bricks rained down and the Lannister lovers of Jamie and Cersei were about to meet their death, the scene was blessed with an editing blunder, Jamie was sporting his cut off hand! Does Somebody praise the Lord of Lights? Sadly, the Lord of Lights can’t take credit for this miracle because this is a very yikes mistake. Who would have thought that the Starbucks cameo appearance won’t be the only golden meme-worthy mistake fans would have? Jamie Lannister and Cersei hugging | Photo – Twitter Fans of the series have since taken to Twitter to blast the creators of GOT for not only giving Cersei one of the most boring TV deaths but making a blunder while at it. As we look forward to the next episode, we can only be left wondering if Sansa Stark will be making a phone call on her brand new Samsung S10 or maybe an iPhone Max to spread the news about Jon Snow’s origin? Or maybe Arya Stark who rode off on a horse after the inferno at King’s Landing will be arriving Winterfell in an Uber. Whatever the case may be, we can’t wait to see what they have for us!