Governor Kashim Shettima of Borno State Governor Kashim Shettima of Borno State has said that the northeast state is safer than the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and other states in the north. Shettima disclosed this on Wednesday before the House of Representatives Committee on Army at the Government House, Maiduguri. According to him, abductions, banditry and other forms of violence have remained unabated since after the general elections. “There were pockets of attacks masterminded by terrorists in some parts of the state. It was lamentable that the terrorists were given much more publicity, than the military and troops. “The military and other security agencies are doing their best in Borno State,” he said, claiming that the only problem now is inadequate military publicity on the ongoing counter-insurgency and terrorism operations. “When Boko Haram attacks and kills even one person, it will be celebrated on the front pages of our newspapers. But when the military kills dozens of insurgents and captures several others alive, such successes against Boko Haram will be published in a tiny news column of newspapers. “The military is now overwhelmed with the increasing security challenges in the north, despite the deployment of troops to Zamfara, Sokoto, Katsina and other volatile states.” Comparing Borno and other states in terms of safety, Shettima said: “In this state, we don’t have cases of kidnapping and banditry as obtained in other states.” He appealed to the house committee to serve as the soul, driver and consciousness of the country. The committee chairman, Rima Shawulu, said: “We are here in Maiduguri to sympathise with government and people of the state over the Boko Haram crisis. “We went to the military cemetery and paid our last respect to the fallen heroes. We were also at different hospitals and sympathised with victims.” He, therefore, appealed to the governor not to lay down his arms against Boko Haram in the state. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .