Sani Lulu Abdullahi The Founder and Proprietor of Fosla Academy, located in Karshi, Abuja, Sani Lulu Abdullahi, has awarded scholarship to 25 students drawn from both Kogi State, and the Federal Capital Territory, to undertake their secondary education with special skills training in football for the 2019 academic session. The annual event, which took place recently in the institutions premises, attracted dignitaries from all walks of life including FIFA agents, NFF officials and football enthusiasts. The event comprised written examinations followed by novelty marches between Under 13 teams from Kogi state and FCT in both male and female categories. Applicants were required to pass the written examination and also pass the talent screening during the novelty marches under careful scrutiny of a number of professional football coaches. The principal of the Academy, Mrs Josephine Eboadeghe lamented the failure of parents and even some football coaches to truly declare the ages of student intakes into the institution. She said: “As a school that combines both knowledge and skills for empowerment, we are working round the clock inclusive of making investigations to ensure that the right students with the best academic and football skills are selected and given admission into the academy. The Fosla Academy runs a special secondary school curriculum that is combined with special training in football skills at FIFA rated international standards. Abdullahi, also a former Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) president, founded the school with the vision to establish a unique and foremost secondary school that will help talented indigent youths develop their football skills while receiving comprehensive world class Secondary Education. Abdullahi reiterated that Fosla Academy emerged to provide an avenue for the youths that are naturally endowed in football to have congenial platform to develop their talents and receive comprehensive secondary education, with the aim of moulding the students into leaders and legends in the game of football, patriotic and ingenious world citizens who will be unbounded in their desire to excel. The Academy started in 2010 with 25 boys and seven girls drawn from amongst the indigent, orphans and abandoned football skilled students. He revealed that the school is partnering with the Nassarawa state University to enable the students continue in the line of knowledge and football skills in the tertiary education. The Challenges the school is currently facing is that of poachers who are waiting around the corner to snatch the students, but the dream of the school for the students is to be football star graduates. The school said it is willing to partner with high net worth individuals, corporate bodies and football enthusiasts who are willing to sponsor the training of talented young football students to develop their skills while pursuing their secondary education. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .