Funmi Omo African Alliance Insurance Plc said it recorded a 78 per cent increase in gross premium in first quarter (Q1) of 2019, compared with the same period of last year.The Managing Director, Mrs. Funmi Omo, who made the explanations ahead of the company’s release of its audited financials, said African Alliance has grown strategically during the past year. “In the same Q1, we paid claims worth N1.8 billion as against N1.5 billion in the same period last year. We are in a strong financial position, and our recent investments and decisions back this,” she said. To further demonstrate its commitment towards financial inclusion and its brand promise to protect the future of every Nigerian, the company recently embarked on a nationwide Takaful campaign aimed at spreading kindness nationwide. “In response to the campaign, one of our customers said: ‘Your Takaful services have been excellent. Your account managers remained impressive in relationship management, and most importantly, payment of claims have been prompt. Hence, the reason I have been able to refer more people to get your Takaful Plan over the years.’ “The company recently embarked on its first rebranding campaign since its 58-year existence. The rebranding, led by me, was the first in the company’s history. This is in a bid to refresh the brand and align its internal digital transformation to its outward, youthful look and feel. “The new logo boasts of two solid shades of blue and diamond shape. Life is precious to every one of us. There is no other country in the world where people are resilient and determined to make the most out of life. Our new diamond logo demonstrates how special our customers are to us,” she said. Omo added that the company’s focus on digital transformation will not only boost internal process efficiency but take the conversations to the customers on the digital channels for better customer experience.“Right now, a customer can take a policy from the comfort of their homes on our website or through social media. It does not get easier than this,” she said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .