[FILE] Ekiti state governor, Kayode Fayemi. Tinubu, Ambode Congratulate Ekiti Governor As Olusola Urges Leadership Without Bitterness The Supreme Court yesterday dismissed an appeal filed by Peoples Democratic Party (PDP’s) gubernatorial candidate in Ekiti State, Kolapo Olusola-Eleka, challenging the election of Governor Kayode Fayemi. Led by Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Tanko Muhammad, the five-man panel affirmed the election of Fayemi in a unanimous decision and held that the appeal challenging the outcome of the Ekiti governorship election lacked merit. The judgment, read by Justice John Okoro affirmed the judgments of the Ekiti State Election Petition Tribunal and the Abuja Division of the Court of Appeal. Both courts had earlier dismissed the petition challenging the outcome of the July 2018 governorship poll. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had declared Fayemi of the All Progressives Congress (APC) winner, having polled 197,459 votes to defeat Olusola-Eleka and the PDP placed in second position with 178,121.   Besides, APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has congratulated Fayemi over his election as the new Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF). Asiwaju Tinubu expressed confidence in Fayemi’s ability to deliver on the assignment given his credentials, competence, integrity and leadership acumen.According to a statement signed by the APC leader’s Media office personnel, Tunde Rahman, Tinubu yesterday addressed a letter to Fayemi urging him to properly reposition the NGF to contribute positively to national development, Also, Lagos State Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode yesterday congratulated his Ekiti and Kebbi counterparts, Fayemi and Atiku Bagudu on their emergence as chairmen of NGF and Progressives Governors’ Forum (PGF).Ambode, in a statement described their emergence as fitting and well deserved, adding that both being governors from the progressive fold, was not only a positive sign for the party, but also a good omen for the country’s democracy.
 
Meanwhile, Olusola, who was former Deputy Governor of Ekiti State and PDP’s gubernatorial candidate in the last election, has congratulated Fayemi on his victory at the Supreme Court.He, however, advised him to exhibit the true Omoluabi attitude Ekiti people are known for, focus on governance and provide leadership without bitterness. Olusola, who said he believes in politics without bitterness, stressed that he stood for development and service, and urged all PDP members in the state to put the pain of defeat behind them and unite to move the party forward. While commending Ekiti people for standing by him through the court cases, Olusola said:  “My consolation at this time is that the Ekiti people, Fayemi and the APC knew I was robbed and God being God, the true story shall be told someday by those who orchestrated the robbery. “The least expectations of Ekiti people from Fayemi and APC now is that they should reduce the people’s sufferings by providing quality leadership so the people do not suffer double loss having lost their mandate freely given.“I urge Ekiti people to maintain peace and keep hope alive. Everyone including myself will cooperate to move Ekiti forward as the state is greater than any individual,” he stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .