 Segun Odegbami  In the past few weeks, the state of sport reared its head for the world to see in an embarrassing scandal that went viral. That is actually the reason for this my public appeal to you now, Sir. I am referring to the scandal of the missing $135,000US in the Athletics Federation of Nigeria, an agency under the Federal Ministry of Sports. Nigeria’s poor image is further battered, and every Nigerian is being smeared with the tar of that single, simple and avoidable act of shame by a few officials in Nigerian sports. 
 
It has happened only because Sport has always been treated with levity. It is in the third tier of Nigeria’s public institutions. It is the agency that has been led through several successive governments by good persons that, unfortunately, do not have much knowledge of it’s intricacies, not to talk of its influence and power to contribute massively to the development of the country beyond winning medals land trophies. Your excellency, Sport, as an important part of a larger entertainment industry, can drive youth engagement and empowerment, national integration and unity, health and wellbeing, education and school enrolment, jobs creation, new industries, new technology, urban planning, renewal and development, tourism, media, culture, infrastructural development, international diplomacy, and more. Those who say that sport is life know what they are talking about. But what it requires is a special eye to see it, special knowledge and experience to appreciate it, and a solid grounding in it to drive it as a special developmental vehicle. That’s why going forward into your new administration starting next week, I am appealing to you to give a little extra time to look at the issue of sport in your government. Use it as a vehicle to help you in your difficult mission ahead. 
 
You can do two things to start with. 
Take Sports away from the Ministry and restore its status and operations to that of a National Sports Commission with a powerful board of members drawn from amongst critical stakeholders grounded in the industry. I want to assure you that you can still satisfy all political righteousness with a careful selection.  
 
The second thing is to give the Commission a Chairman, devoid of political, religious, and ethnic biases, but one with a solid grounding in sports in terms of qualifications, experience, integrity and a clear vision, to head it. Do those simple things for Nigerians and you can go to sleep. I assure you that sports will rise up to the challenge of fulfilling its potential as a weapon with the power to make very significant contributions to change Nigeria.  I thank you sir for your patience reading this long and boring admonition.
Your humble Ambassador,
Segun Odegbami  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .