Heavy Rain The Lekki Estate Residents and Stakeholders Association (LERSA), on Friday called for concerted efforts by the Federal Government and stakeholders to address regular flooding in the locality during the rainy season. The President of LERSA, Olorogun James Emadoye, made the call in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos on the need to tackle immobility, loss of lives and property caused by flooding in the area. Emadoye urged the government to utilise the ecological funds to provide help for Lekki and its occupants before population explosion and the flooding got worse. “The addressing threat of flood and the resultant effects is the beginning of wisdom if you live around this axis. “The region has become one of the most populated areas of Lagos due to the influx of businesses, the ongoing refinery, new airport and deep sea ports, we need to be able to account for lives and property. “If you recall, three years ago, we had a situation and before it gets to that stage again. “We are appealing that the government should do something for Lagos out of the ecological funds because the challenge is really staring us in the face.” Emadoye implored the government to invest more in the development of the coastal roads and railways to minimise usage of the single Lekki-Epe expressway. He further advised that instead of the continuous tolling of the Lekki Epe Expressway, a new coastal road should be built and tolled. “Road transportation alone cannot serve Lagos and the nation at large. “The road carries all sorts of heavy machineries and loads, as a result cannot last the duration for which it was built. “With rail, a single train will be able to lift about a 1000 at a time and so the road becomes less burdensome. “Also, rather than tolling this road which was built by the Alhaji Lateef Jakande administration, a new coastal road should be built and tolled instead,” he said. Emadoye urged residents to look out for each other by calling the attention of the association and emergency services to blocked drainage along their residences. “We must all be responsible, responsive and committed to the environment and to one another. “Everybody must contribute to ensure we avert major disaster in this area now that the rains are here. “LERSA has already set up an environment committee to tackle major problems as the need arises,” he said. Emadoye commended the Lagos State government for its prompt response to emergency situations within their limits and resources available. He reiterated the association’s commitment to partnering with the Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s administration in achieving its goals at making Lekki and Lagos the mega city as planned. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .