Gunmen abduct Niger Delta varsity lecturer’s wife
Vigilance group members and youths of Benin Technical College (BTC) community yesterday foiled an attempt to abduct the pastor of Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) in charge of Ologbosere parish at Egor Local Government Area of Edo State. The vigilance group and youths of the community with support from worshippers apprehended three suspects at about 8:00a.m. yesterday. The BTC community, which has become under siege by armed bandits, is host to many churches, including Living Faith Church, Church of God Mission Int’l, Holy Rosary Catholic Church and Mountain of Fire and Miracle (MFM). Luck ran out of the three-man gang who dispossessed unsuspecting worshippers of their money, phones and other valuables including cars, when they snatched a Toyota Camry car from another church and while trying to escape where chased by youths. It was gathered that the hoodlums abandoned the snatched car, proceeded to the RCCG church, where they abducted the pastor, simply identified as Pastor Ayo, and whisked him away in his Nissan Xtera SUV. Not deterred, the youths gave the hoodlums a hot chase, which later forced them to abandon the pastor’s vehicle and the pastor. Items recovered from the suspects include two double barrel cut to size gun, a Camry car and Nissan SUV belonging to the pastor. According to the vigilance group leader, the hoodlums terrorising the community are notorious for snatching cars at various churches during service. Efforts to reach the pastor were unsuccessful as he was said to be receiving medical attention in an undisclosed hospital following injuries sustained during the kidnap attempt. The Edo Commissioner of Police, CP DanMallam Mohammed’s timely intervention saved the suspects from being lynched to death by the youths following the immediate transfer of the suspects from the divisional police station to the state police headquarters for further investigation. Meanwhile, gunmen on Sunday at Gbarantoru community in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, abducted the wife of a lecturer with the Niger Delta University (NDU). Sources in the community told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that the incident occurred early on Sunday and that the gunmen fired sporadic shots to announce their arrival. The gunmen reportedly entered the community through River Nun in a speedboat boat and headed to the residence of the lecturer, identified simply as Dr Charles. A resident, who pleaded not to be named for fear of being targeted, said that the gunmen missed their target, who evaded escape, prompting them to whisk away his wife, whom they took away in their boat. The resident said that youths of the community mobilised to the scene of crime few minutes after the shooting only to see the lecturer emerging from where he was hiding. The spokesman for the Bayelsa State Police Command, Asinim Butswat, confirmed that the command was aware of the incident and was on the trail of the abductors. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .