 [FILE PHOTO] Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode, the Governor of Lagos State.<br />Photo: Twitter/ AkinwunmiAmbode  Rather, instead of a transition, the process should have birthed the consolidation of the Ambode administration as the governor transits into the second stanza of his public service career.
 
But that will not be as the Lagos State’s peculiar political system has shown that good performance alone cannot guarantee a public officeholder a renewal of tenure, even by his political party. That unfortunately is the peculiarity of the nature and character of the politics of Lagos State.  His signature projects in the area of infrastructural development in the five divisions that make up the state have ensured a better living standard for the people.
 
It was under him the state found a seemingly permanent solution to the intractable traffic congestion in Abule Egba and Ajah with the building of the Jubilee Flyovers in the two areas where commuters hitherto spent as much as two hours in standstill traffic.
 
Work has also gone far on the construction of another flyover at Pen Cinema junction in Agege to liberate commuters and motorists from the hellish traffic in that area.  The roads in the areas are well paved with a modern drainage system to de-flood the area and streetlights to enhance security.
 
However, one cannot close the chapter on Ambode’s achievements in the area of infrastructure without looking at two iconic projects: the reconstruction of the road leading to the nation’s premier gateway, Murtala Muhammed International Airport and the Oshodi Transport Interchange. The two projects are to strengthen the state’s claim to a 21st Century megacity.
 
The International Airport project is transforming the four-lane carriageway into a 10-lane super highway with additional features of a ramp bridge and a flyover.
 
The Oshodi Transport Interchange, on its part, is to consolidate on the achievement of Ambode’s predecessor, Mr. Babatunde Fashola, who returned order to the crime-infested and chaotic ambience of the area, by turning it into a world-class transport hub.  The Ambode’s touch has also been felt in other sectors such as the Bus Reform Initiative aimed to boost the state’s public transportation fleet with 5,000 new buses. Already, about 1,000 of such buses are ready to roll out under a new scheme that takes off in May. President Muhammadu Buhari came to town two weeks ago to give it a presidential seal when he commissioned the two big projects, the Ayike House and the Lagos Theatre.
 
Ambode has also doggedly pursued the BRT scheme inherited from his predecessor with the addition of 434 new buses to those plying the Ikorodu Corridor. A new corridor, that will soon become operational, has also been completed to extend the scheme to commuters plying the Oshodi-Abule Egba Corridor. In the health sector, the Ambode touch has transformed Ayinke House, unarguably the biggest maternity hospital in Nigeria, from an 80-bed facility into an ultra-modern 170-bed specialist centre. The LASUTH complex, which houses the Ayinke House, now has a state-owned helipad for medical emergency and the nation’s first DNA Forensic Centre.  He also signed into law the Lagos Neighbourhood Safety Corps Law and the Lagos State Properties Protection Law to protect property investors from land grabbers.
 
Ambode has been able to achieve all these and more in the field of human capital development and the economy through his financial engineering wizardry in such a way that he is leaving the state without adding to the state’s foreign public debt stock of $1.43 billion that he inherited from his predecessor.
 
As he steps aside come May 29, 2019, there is no doubt that he is leaving Lagos far better than he met it and history is going to be kind to him.
 
Ajayi, a public affairs analyst, lives at Iyana Ipaja, Lagos  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .