 Executive Director, Nigerian Export Promotion Council, Olusegun Awolowo  Among other incentives, the Export Expansion Grant (EEG) Scheme was designed to encourage exporters to sell goods abroad with a tacit grant that allows them to receive tax charge offs and other benefits.
   
In 2013, the Export Expansion Grant (EEG) was re-designed from Negotiable Duty Credit Certificates (NDCCs) but not long thereafter, was suspended for another review following allegations of abuse. The scheme was suspended and reactivated eight times between 2005 and 2013.  In a letter to the Vice President, made available to The Guardian, the Organized Private Sector Exporters Association (OPEXA), noted that they were “constrained to draw (the VP’s) attention to the continued hardship and ill-treatment being inflicted upon the businesses and investors in the strategically important export sector especially as relates to the Promissory Notes (PN) programme of the Federal Government of Nigeria”.
   
“The challenge, as represented, had been that the government desire to ensure the much agreed upon transparency and integrity of the exporter’s PN scheme, has equally stalled progress on the debt repayment project either due to structural inadequacies or consensus on the issue of what is equitable, fair and just.
    
“More importantly, by adopting a reverse auction method of pricing PNs, the government has sacrificed exporter funding viability for fiscal convenience and budgetary expedience ; the challenge of addressing a lean government wallet has become more important than incentivizing exporters who will generate future revenues that will subsequently be taxed”, OPEXA explained.
   
OPEXA’s executives note that the federal government had previously approved a Promissory Note (PN) programme in 2017 which was finally passed by an Act of the National Assembly in 2018 for the payment of N195bn in claims due for payment in January 2019.
  
The exporters noted that they were not contacted in the intervening period until the 4th of April, 2019 when the public Debt Authority (DMO) called them to explain how the PN payment would work.
   
According to OPEXA, they were informed that PNs will be issued on the basis of what the DMO referred to as a reverse auction.  DMO explains Federal Government’s repayment arrangement
In its response, the DMO explained that it made a presentation on the Promissory Note Programme as approved by Federal Executive Council (FEC), following which some terms approved by FEC were highlighted for clarity and preparation by the Exporters.
   
According to the DMO, the terms included the need for a document review to be conducted by an International Accounting Firm; that the Promissory Notes are to be issued through a Reverse Auction based on Discounts to be offered by the creditors including the Exporters; and, that Notes are to be issued for tenors up to 10 (ten) years.
     
On the subject of verification claims, the DMO insisted that verification claims should continue to ensure that fraud and false claims are checked and nipped early, although it made no reference to the multiple exercises carried out thus far or how such will be discharged in a more efficient manner.  Need for consensus
For the exporters, withdrawing the reverse auction process of PN issuance and reducing the tenor of PNs to the shortest period possible but certainly less than the 10-year tenor of the present Notes would galvanise the scheme and encourage larger production activity, employment, and foreign exchange inflows.
   
Considering that most of the instrument holders have already suffered a delay of between three and 12 years in deferred payments, industry observers urged the Federal Government to pay at least 60% of the value of the Promissory Notes (PNs) already cleared by PICA led by its inter-ministerial team while awaiting the completion of the document review exercise by the consultants appointed by the DMO. 
   
This, according to them, would give exporters access to critically needed liquidity and enable them to continue with near term export plans.
 
Similarly, for lasting consensus, interests of all stakeholders need to be aligned to ensure a win-win situation for all and the economy at large.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .