The Wikimedia Nigeria Foundation has approved the appointment of Barrister Fatai Erewunmi, Dr. Elekofeinti Olushola (Ph.D), Engr. Olujide Adenekan, Tosin Ogunwa and Runcie Chidebe as members of the board of trustees. This appointment was announced by Mr. Kayode Yusuf the Foundation’s spokesman, who conveyed the approval of the management to the newly appointed trustees. Mr. Olaniyan Olushola, Chair of the board, in a statement released to our correspondence at the Foundation’s headquarter in Lagos confirms the appointment. Fatai Erewunmi is a Barrister and Advocate of the Supreme Court of Nigeria, a Solicitor of the Supreme Court of England and Wales, and an Attorney and Counsellor-at-Law of the Supreme Court of New York. He is an associate of the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators, London and holds a LLM in International Law. He began his legal career as a state counsel and in Legal Aid, before moving into corporate practice where he garnered valuable experience in green field commercial transactions, working with Promoters on corporate pre-incorporation and post-incorporation concerns. He has consulted on numerous projects involving industry specific market entry due diligence and compliance requirements. He is positioned and experienced to help foreign interests entering or doing business in Nigeria to navigate the maze of federal, state and local statutory obligations. Dr. Olusola Olalekan Elekofehinti (Ph. D) obtained his PhD in Plant Biochemistry and Drug metabolism in 2015 in a split-site programme between the Bioquimical Toxicologia Unit, CCNE, Universidade Federal de Santa Maria RS, Brazil and the Department of Biochemistry, Ekiti State University, Ado Ekiti, Nigeria. He is a Lecturer in the Department of Biochemistry, FUTA where he lectures and supervises graduate and undergraduate students. He leads a drug discovery research group in the Department using Bioinformatics and Molecular Biology tools. Ogunwa Tosin is an environmental scientist and academics. He hold a Bachelor of Science degree in Biochemistry (1st class honor) and Master’s degree in Biochemistry from University of Benin (Uniben). Runcie C.W. Chidebe, 33, a cancer control advocate, researcher, executive director of Project PINK BLUE and curator of Wikimedia Hub Abuja. He is very passionate about gender equity and the use of Wikimedia to make internet gender balanced. Hence, he has hosted several Wikimedia projects for women and girls including Wiki Loves Women Abuja, #WhenGirlsWrite, and WikiGap in collaboration with the Embassy of Sweden.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .