 [FILE PHOTO] ASUU National President, Prof. Biodun Ogunyemi  National President of the union, Prof. Biodun Ogunyemi, who spoke against the backdrop of plans by a breakaway faction to get official recognition, claimed that members of the newly formed Congress of University Academics (CONUA) enjoyed the backing of their vice-chancellors. Some aggrieved ASUU members from the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile Ife had last year broke away from the union following an unresolved crisis in its chapter since 2013. CONUA is made up of angry ASUU members who pulled out last week because their grievances were allegedly not addressed by the national leadership. The OAU chapter’s crisis began during the selection of a new vice chancellor for the institution. The ASUU leaders were divided over the choice of the head of the institution. Also, the election of the new executive council of the union in 2016 was another big contention. Petitions against some aspirants, including candidates for the chairman and treasurer positions, were written to the national ASUU leadership. However, the election had held to get CONUA officials. Consequently, Niyi Sunmonu emerged chairman. Others are Fayomi Awodele (vice-chairman); Henry Oripeloye (secretary) and H. A. Adefeso (assistant secretary). The rest were M. O. Awoyemi (treasurer); O. Arawomo (financial secretary); A. A. Shobola (welfare officer); B. O. Odu (internal auditor) and O. F. Adebowale (investment officer). Sunmonu noted that many members felt that the 2016 election crisis, which produced Caleb Aborisade as chairman, was not well managed by the national ASUU. But ASUU president, in a chat with The Guardian, said efforts were ongoing to resolve the problem. Meanwhile, the Bayero University (BUK) chapter of ASUU has denied crack within its ranks. Its chairman, Professor Ibrahim Barde, told newsmen yesterday in Kano that the union remains strong and intact. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .