Kaduna State governor Nasir El-Rufai PHOTO: TWITTER/GOVERNOR KADUNA No govt assisting us, they insist 
Eleven days after the kidnap of six students and two teachers of Engravers College, Kakau Daji, Kaduna State, the parents of the victims have said that Governor Nasir el-Rufai has compounded their travails. During a press briefing at the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) secretariat in Kaduna yesterday, the parents lamented that their children were yet to be released because el-Rufai’s public pronouncement that he was in touch with the kidnappers hardened them. Spokesman for the parents, Chukwuemeka Adindu, said, “We want to state clearly that the six students and staff kidnapped have not been released.” He said the parents would also want the world to know that they were the only ones interfacing with the kidnappers, stressing that government had not come out clear on the role it was playing. Despite the public statement made by the governor that the government was on top of the situation, the school children are still wallowing in anguish, he added. “We were talking with the kidnappers of our children; suddenly the kidnappers said that they the government had come into the case. They said government should settle them. The governor’s pronouncement in Abuja that the government was on top of the situation has compounded our problem. “The kidnappers went to the extent of playing the video about the comment made by the governor concerning the children. The school is private, and government is not negotiating. No government is involved in this. It is only us, the parents,” he added. According to him, the parents of the students and staff do not know who is negotiating on behalf of the government because the kidnappers are still threatening them. “We have been under torment for the past 11 days. We are letting the whole world know that we are not with the government. No one is helping us; we are alone on this cause,” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .