 [FILE PHOTO] Godwin Obaseki. Photo: Twitter/GovernorObaseki  He recalled how Oshiomhole, who is the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), threatened to make the state ungovernable, adding he was planning to escalate the security situation in the state to make good his threats. “Whenever he wants to come to the state, he does not inform the governor, the police or the DSS but the thugs. As a former governor, he ought to inform the governor and security agencies each time he desires to visit the state “The Commissioner of Police (CP), Dan Mallam Muhammed, has declared the state peaceful, but Oshiomhole and his cohorts are bent on making it ungovernable. Try as they would, l know the governor and security agencies would not allow that.“As a former governor, Oshiomhole should not undermine the capacity and integrity of the police unless otherwise he is looking for anarchy,” he stated. He charged government functionaries and political office holders to be circumspect in their comments on the allegations of attack on Oshiomhole’s residence in the state. But in a swift reaction, Oshiomhole indicted the CP, saying he was now become a willing tool in the hands of desperate politicians in the state, insisting that Obaseki had already perfected plans to dump the APC ahead of next year’s governorship poll. In a statement claimed that the resolve by Obaseki to fan the embers of discord in Edo state among supporters of the party was aimed at achieving the objective.Oshiomhole, who spoke through his media aide, Simon Ebegbulem claimed that Obaseki must have picked a quarrel with him over his enviable records in the state. Meanwhile, a former chairman of Ovia North East Council Area, Faustain Ovienrioba yesterday said he and his over 3000 supporters were ready to work towards ensuring success for Obaseki’s re-election.Ovienrioba who led his supporters back to the All Progressives Congress (APC) declared his intention to return to the APC at a meeting with Deputy Governor, Philip Shaibu, saying his support for the party was total. He noted that next year’s governorship election would be a work over for Obaseki in view of the governor’s pedigree, saying continuity for Obaseki was non-negotiable due to APC’s development strides in the state. Also, APC leader in the Council Area and Commissioner for Local Government and Community Affairs, Monday Osaigbovo, said people were proud of Obaseki’s development strides and would return him for a second term. Speaking, Shaibu noted that the progress so far made in the state would not be put on reverse gear by anybody or group of persons.He stated that the decision of the former PDP members to defect and align with the state government at a time when there was crisis in the APC showed that government does not reverse its policies because of people who do not understand what leadership entails. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .