 Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). Photo: CHAMPION  This will usher in, without any further delay, an era of probity and transparency as well as aid the commission’s work of facilitating the rapid and sustainable development of the Niger Delta into a region that is economically prosperous, socially stable and politically peaceful.Of course, Buhari was on point by noting that against the backdrop of the resources already allocated to the commission from inception till date, the development on ground in the oil-rich Niger Delta does not reflect the money already spent. If anything, the commission, which was intended to be an agency with the mandate to provide critical infrastructure and other physical development and give a sense of justice to the restive citizens of the region has become nothing other than a cash-dispensing machine to those who have been privileged to run its affairs or have access to its leadership. 
 
The commission is renowned on one hand for its huge purse on account of the resources allocated to it by the Federal Government and on the other for corruption and an embarrassing departure from its core mandate. The result is that NDDC has become the den where overnight billionaires are minted either through direct looting of its resources by privileged hands or by paying humongous sums of money for contracts that were never intended for execution.
 
Hence the Niger Delta region is littered with abandoned projects and remains one of the most under-developed parts of Nigeria. Ever since its inception, the NDDC has been an institution of interest to all Nigerians as allegations of undesirable activities constantly dog its steps. And each succeeding management and board allegedly tries to outdo the other in looting, in shoddy award of contracts with intent to steal as well as project abandonment.  Only recently, water hyacinth contracts amounting to about N1.9 billion, purportedly approved and paid to phoney companies by the interim management team, in clear breach of a presidential directive and violation of extant procurement rules, surfaced. Also, the commission was reportedly poised to recruit over 300 new employees without a board approval for such massive recruitment, a travesty that would have passed had there been no outcry by many stakeholders from the Niger Delta region. 
 
The tragedy, however, is that reports abound that the culprits are largely privileged members of the elite whose roots are in the same Niger Delta.And this is why not only must this forensic audit be properly and comprehensively done, there must be severe consequences for those found to have short-changed the people of Nigeria, especially the Niger Delta. Against the background of the fear that too many powerful interests, from the grassroots to the National Assembly and even the presidency, whose hands may have been soiled in the NDDC would frustrate this forensic probe, the onus is now on President Buhari to erase all doubts by ensuring a credible audit, bringing all culprits to book and retrieving all monies stolen.Indeed, the Federal Government is hereby advised to beam a similar searchlight on other institutions with a view to saving the country from mindless scoundrels.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .