Governor Obaseki The crisis rocking the Edo chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) ahead of next year’s governorship election in the state at the weekend deepened, as both supporters of Governor Godwin Obaseki and the party’s National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, alleged physical attacks. While sympathisers of the latter accused those of the former of attacking the Benin GRA home of the ex-labour leader, the Chief of Staff to the governor, Taiwo Akerele, on the other hand, alleged that he was attacked by an APC chieftain loyal to Oshiomhole in a hotel on Friday while meeting with some foreign investors within the capital. However, the state Commissioner of Police, Danmallam Muhammed, has refuted the invasion of the home of the former governor. But Oshiomhole’s media aide, Simon Ebegbulem, insisted that the facility was reportedly attacked by agents of government but were stopped by APC youths who mobilised to contain the action. The party chairman, who addressed some youths within the precincts of his home, enjoined them to maintain peace in the country and Edo in particular. Contacted on the phone, CP Muhammed stated: “The one that happened was the day before yesterday (Friday), and there was no attack on Oshiomhole’s residence. “He (Oshiomhole) visited the Oba of Benin, and we escorted him to the airport, and he thanked us for the security of the state. “And you know when his Excellency (Obaseki) visited him (Oshiomhole) during Sallah, he said people capitalise on issues to make money and create problems when there are none. Nobody attacked Oshiomhole house. Any place they attack, you will see physical evidence.” Besides, the Special Adviser to the Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, Crusoe Osagie, in a statement said government had no knowledge of the “purported attack on the person or the residence of former governor of the state and National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole.” Meanwhile, the party headquarters and Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege have deplored the development. They made their position known in two separate statements issued yesterday in Abuja by APC National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Isa-Onilu, and Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to Omo-Agege, Yomi Odunuga. Isa-Onilu noted that though Oshiomhole had urged calm “after the apparent attempt on his life, we call on the Inspector General of Police (IGP) Mohammad Adamu and other relevant security outfits to investigate the ugly incident and prosecute the sponsors and attackers.” Omo-Agege, on his part, described the incident as “cowardly, inhumane and totally unacceptable.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .