 The Adeniji Adele Estate in Lagos Central Business District  The Adeniji Adele redevelopment project was first identified for regeneration during the  Raji Fashola administration. The project conceived by the state’s  urban renewal authority was meant to be developed through exclusive state funding, however, a Public Private Participation approach was introduced in 2016. It was formulated to redevelop the blighted estate, currently housing 720 families.  The project would accommodate an estimated 2,500 housing units via a high rise building development. Based on the design, the Adeniji Adele Phase I-IV Housing proposes to adopt a multi-faceted housing type at various heights to achieve the required density for the redevelopment. Essentially, the project would involve commercial and community development and inclusion of elevated parking spaces, shopping areas, community centre, places of worship and schools, recreational and open spaces. It also has  a strategy for vehicular movement for primary and secondary drainage, effluent disposal water supply, sewage treatment power supply as well as waste management. Although, investigations show that the estimated N160 billion initiative has undergone preliminary works and necessary studies, however, efforts at fast-tracking processes for commencement seem tardy.Currently, majority of buildings in the location are in shambles and need to be replaced with modern housing facilities   with  infrastructure. The urban slum dwellers of Lagos are deprived of essential basic social facilities and are faced with poor living conditions due to population density, overcrowding, unemployment, poverty, lack of drinking water, inadequate liquid and solid waste management, noise pollution, poor health care access, poor structural quality of housing, cultural dislocation and insecure residential status.These conditions make the informal settlements breeding grounds for diseases such as tuberculosis, hepatitis, dengue, pneumonia, malaria, cholera and diarrhoea diseases. Besides, residents of such locations are at a high risk of non-communicable diseases such as, asthma, heart disease, diabetes, mental health problems including anxiety, depression, insomnia and substance abuse as they adopt an urban lifestyle while lacking knowledge and information regarding health and necessity for health care. The Guardian learnt that, “Several stakeholders forum’ for the project were held, resettlement plan proposed, cost of the project estimated and other pre-feasibility issues concluded to produce an Outline Business Case for the project. The project was also advertised and procurement process was followed to select preferred developer. Negotiation is continuing with the proposed developer and the state government.” The General Manager of Lagos State Urban Renewal Agency (LASURA), Mr. Lateef Sholebo, reportedly said that negotiations were on top gear, with all relevant stakeholders to ensure that actions are expedited toward the commencement of the redevelopment but the project hasn’t seen the light of the day. While reacting on the project, the State’s Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Dr. Idris Salako said that the delays in the kick off of Adeniji Adele redevelopment scheme was due to paucity of funds but the government is in the process of signing the final stage for the project to herald its execution. The commissioner who spoke through the Special Adviser, Kehinde Osunlekey  disclosed that apart from  the funds, some other issues that caused the delay is the timely execution of the project, stressing that work is still in progress for the Lagos Island project.He said, “Although Lagos state urban renewal agency is the initiator and originator of the project and they are in charge. By the time they finalised arrangements on the project, they would bring it down to us. It is what the agency brings down to us that we would take decision on.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .