 Photo: THELOCAL  The platform is targeted at helping farmers from the remotest of villages to get their goods across to buyers. Speaking at training for farmers and vendors in Abuja, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) IAYADS, Uchendu Nwabara, said over one million jobs would be created from the platform as there would be new farmers, vendors, packagers, transporters, insurance agents, website managers across the states. According to him, the initiative was a partnership with CK Empire, the IT developers, adding that the platform is intended to give hope to the teeming youth and farmers alike so that more Nigerians can embrace the profession. Nwabara said when fully operational, the problem of perishable goods would be over as such goods will quickly get to the already-waiting buyers. “We come up with the concept to create hope for Nigerians because we discovered that the problem we are having is getting the hope out there so that our young ones can face their future and not being afraid of not having a fruitful future. “The programme we came up with is how to get the farmers out of bondage, so we created a World Market site to get the villagers out, load them in the system so that they and their products can be accessed from anywhere in the World.” “We plan to cut off the middle man and link the farmers directly to the buyers: we want to cut off so many difficulties including transportation. “The major problem of farmers is off-takers, they will farm and at the end of the day nobody to buy it. So we are creating the World where they will already have demands before they are done farming. “We have created vendors and managers that will help them upload their goods and find a means of getting them to their destination. “We are looking at creating 1 million jobs because each vendor can produce up to 30 vendors in each state, we are looking at a point where the vendors in the states will have over 1000 vendors each. “What we are doing now is to do the training to educate our people and make them aware of what can be benefitted from the platform. That is what we are all about: creating a world of hope for the farmers,” he said. Nwabara added that there would be insurance to secure buyers in the event that the product is affected along the line, adding that only verified farmers would be enrolled on the site. He said before products are put on the site, they are verified, and a second verification is done by the vendor managers before the products are sent to the buyer. He said so far, they were already present in 21 states. Also speaking, CEO of CK Empire, Kanu Kingsley, said the system could take as many farmers as are available. “The system can take as many as all the farmers in Nigeria. It is a simple platform. But what we are looking at is to have up to 10,000 to 20,000 farmers before the end of October. “With the structure and people that we have here, we are looking at getting even many more farmers before the end of the year,” he said. General Secretary, Northern Farmers Association, FCT Chapter, Ali Paul, said the platform would go a long way to help farmers and save them from post-harvest loses and underpricing by middlemen.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .