The Rock City of Abeokuta, Ogun State will witness an unprecedented number of visitors, beginning from Thursday, ahead of the maiden edition of the Abeokuta City Marathon. Over 5,000 athletes will attend the 10km road race, which will hold on Saturday, November 2. It will end at the Alake’s Palace, according to the organisers. The Managing Director of Nilayo Sports Management Company, Bukola Olopade, told The Guardian yesterday that Thursday and Friday had been set aside for the arrival of athletes for the race. According to Olopade, a former sports commissioner in Ogun State under the Gbenga Daniel’s administration, the maiden Abeokuta City Marathon would be filled with thrills and glamour. “We have been working day and night to make sure everything is put in place for the event,” Olopade said. “As we speak, some of our officials are already on the ground in Abeokuta to tidy up things. I am sure the Abeokuta marathon will be one of the best ever witnessed in Nigeria.” Olopade, who is also the organizer of the Access Bank Lagos City Marathon, as well as the Abuja International Marathon, added: “The Abeokuta marathon will open a new chapter in the history of marathon races in Nigeria. It is the maiden edition, and everybody in Abeokuta and its environs wants to be part of the race.” Nilayo Sports Management Company is Nigeria’s foremost Marathon and Road Races organizing body. “The success we have achieved with the Access Bank Lagos City Marathon in the last four years shows that Nigerians are in love with Marathons and Road Races, and we at Nilayo intend to take the gospel of marathons and Road Races to all the nooks and crannies of Nigeria. We intend to stage the best marathon ever in Abeokuta on November 2 and then move to other regions as fast as possible.” The Abeokuta City marathon is being sponsored by JAC Motors with additional support from the Ogun State government. Governor Dapo Abiodun will flag off the race.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .