  Designing a Garden Plan	
Before you start planting, you need to create a garden plan. When designing a home garden landscape, the most important step is to put a plan on paper. Developing a master plan will save you time and money and is more likely to result in a successful design. A Master plan is developed through the design process, a step-by-step method that considers the environmental conditions, your desires, and elements and principles of design. The goal is to organize the natural and man-made features in your garden into an aesthetic, functional, and environmentally sustainable landscape. Start by using graph paper and drawing a plan of your garden	Site to scale. Plot every feature you find on your site, both natural and those your predecessors have put in place. Use a measuring tape to get approximate measurement. The Design Process:
The five steps of the design process include: conducting a site inventory and analysis, determining your needs, creating functional diagrams, developing a conceptional design and drawing a final design plan. The first three steps establish the aesthetics, functional, and horticultural requirements for the design. The last two steps then apply those requirements to the creation of the final landscape plan. The process begins with a site inventory and analysis of soil, drainage, climate conditions and existing vegetation. This is a critical step for both plant selection and placement and locating family activities and functions. It’s important because the same climate conditions that affect the plants – temperature, humidity, rain, wind and sunlight – also affect you, the user. The next step is to make a list of your needs and desires this helps you determine how your garden and landscape will be used. The site and user analysis will also help you establish a theme for the form and style of your design. The functional diagram is then used to locate the activity spaces on the site and from this diagram a conceptional plan is developed. The last step is a final design that includes all the hardscape and planting detail that are necessary for installation. Study your current plan carefully and decide which features you want to incorporate into your final plan, which ones you want to highlight, and which one you want to downplay or remove.Place a piece of tracing paper over your plan and sketch in or leave out various features and designs. When designing your garden plan, you don’t have to get bogged down in details, listing every plant by name. Instead: ‘sun loving perennials’, ‘blue and yellow bed’, or ‘pots of annuals’ may do. With your sketch in hand, your next step is to decide which area you want to start with and to roll up your sleeves. Break big projects down to manageable pieces, and do them one at a time. Like rooms in a house, a garden area has four major elements in this order:
Floor: Lawn grass, a ground cover, paving materials, or good, planting soil.
Walls: Supplied literally by a wall of your house, by a fence, hedge, or trellis, or by backdrop of ever greens or shrubs of kind.
Ceiling; can certainly be open sky but may also involve an umbrella awnings, overarching tree or large-shrub branches or a pergola with or without a cloak of plants. Furniture; Tables and chairs, and benches and the like but also major containers  or garden ornaments and décor.Limit yourself to one or two ornaments and keep focus on the sense of space and living parts of your garden.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .