 Akeredolu  Speaking on the sidelines of the nation’s independence anniversary yesterday, Akeredolu asserted that the leadership of the country has exhausted all excuses for its underdevelopment 59 years after independence, lamenting that the country has not got to its destination since it got independence from Britain 59 years ago. Akerodolu, who was represented by his Deputy, Agboola Ajayi, said the task before the leadership is to build a strong and viable economy that would generate a prosperous, progressive and dignified life for the good of the country and the state. He, however, added that the county could reach its desired destination with more hard work, enterprise, creativity and the constant fight against corruption. Besides, Sanwo-Olu enjoined Nigerians to keep their hope alive and remain united to build a prosperous and stronger nation. Sanwo-Olu said the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led Federal Government and its leadership in the state had made progress to restore the country’s past glory and build on the legacies bequeathed by the nation’s founding fathers. Meanwhile, Abiodun expressed concern over the rate at which Nigerians leave the country in search of greener pasture. Speaking at the anniversary celebration in Abeokuta, he bemoaned the fact that the country was losing its best brains to developed countries simply because things were not working as they should back home. “At 59, our dear country still has much work to do. We must remain patriotic. We must put our nation first. It is worrisome that our people are migrating to other countries for greener pastures.” “While some of our current national challenges may make it tempting to seek fortunes outside our shores, we must also realise that these countries were once in our position with different challenges. And indeed, more often than not, the greener pasture is a mirage”, he stated. He charged Nigerians, especially the youths to be more patriotic and contribute their quotas to the development of the country instead of seeking greener pastures overseas, describing their quest ‘a mirage.’ To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .