Ed Sheeran has dropped the video for his song, “South of the Border,” the No. 6 Collaborations Project track, featuring Camila Cabello and Cardi B. The “South of the Border” video first takes place in a luxurious mansion where Ren slips something into Sheeran’s drink, casting a sleeping spell on him before blindfolding him and tying him to a chair in the library. There she finds a prized ruby necklace secretly locked away in a book. Watch: Ed Sheeran, Cardi B And Camila Cabello In Spy Film Inspired Music Video “South Of The Border” We can’t totally follow the plot, but we do know that it shows multiple moments that can only be described as iconic, from Ren kidnapping Sheeran and stealing his necklace to Cabello obviously stage-punching Karmiryan to Cardi rapping with her hands tied.  After Karmiryan loses the red-veiled thief in a high-speed car chase, the search for the necklace takes him south of the border — specifically Sayulita, Mexico, according to the coordinates. The nearly four minutes long video is full of spy thriller action, plus a good 45 seconds of classic Cardi antics at the end. Along with Sheeran, Cabello and Cardi (“as Cardi B”), the “frivolous spy film” also stars social media influencer Alexis Ren and Veronica Mars actor Paul Karmiryan. The video is directed by Jason Koenigand the song itself is a single off Sheeran’s fourth studio album “No.6 Collaborations Project” which was released in July. Speaking on his collaboration with Cardi B, Sheeran said: “I’ve always wanted to make a song with Cardi B, just personality-wise … She’s very animated, very lovely, so I’ve always wanted her on a record.” He continued: “I love how unfiltered she is. Literally. She’s so media trained not to be media trained, like, her whole schtick is she goes on and says whatever she wants, and that is what works for her, whereas I never had a media training either, and I feel like I get to just say what I want. And she’s successful because she is who she is.” Watch the video below: 