The Nigerian Army 1 Division said the troops of Operation Thunder Strike have rescued students of Government Day Secondary School, Gwagwada in Chikun Council of Kaduna State that were abducted by unknown gunmen. In a statement by Deputy Director Army Public Relations 1 Division Nigerian Army, Colonel Ezindu Idimah he said the Troops who were on routine patrol in the general area received information from a reliable source that some bandits terrorizing the Abuja-Kaduna highway have waylaid some students on their way to school and abducted them. “The troops immediately swung into action and gave the bandits a hot chase. On sighting the troops,  the bandits engaged them in a firefight but had to surrender to the superior firepower of the troops. “Following the firefight, one of the bandits was neutralized while the rest scampered into different directions of the forest with gunshot wounds. He said all the students abducted by the bandits were rescued safely and reunited with their families. “Items recovered from them include one AK47 rifle with seven rounds of 7.62mm special ammunition and a pump-action gun with ten cartridges. “The troops are currently combing the entire forest in search of the bandits,” Idimah said. The Army spokesman also said in his statement that ” in a related development, troops also dealt decisively with the bandits in an ambush at Soho Gaya in  Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State at about 10 am this morning, During the ambush, 2 bandits were neutralized while one rifle was recovered. “Additionally, at about 1045am this morning, troops pursued bandits into one of the forests in Chukun Local Government Area of Kaduna State. During the pursuit, one of the bandits was neutralized while 2 AK 47 riffles, one pump-action and 3 Magazines were recovered.” According to him,  the successes recorded has buoyed up troops morale who expressed enthusiasm in sustaining the onslaught against the bandits and other criminal elements within the Division Area of responsibility. “The General Officer Commanding 1 Division Nigerian Army, Major General Faruk Yahaya has commended the efforts of the troops and urged them to continue to pursue and neutralize bandits in 1 Division Area of Responsibility. He also urged the general public to report anybody with a gun wound to the security agents around them,” The Division PRO said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .