There are warning signs that the body gives before it acquires an illness. These signs show that you may acquire an illness but if these signs and symptoms are taken seriously then most probably you will be able to get rid of the illness a lot sooner. Keep reading below to see five indicators that you may acquire an illness sooner than you think according to Lybate. African American woman gives cough syrup to sick man | Photo – Freepik Loss of appetite If you find yourself losing or having a reduction in appetite, then you may want to check yourself quickly as it can be an indicator of many oncoming illnesses. Note that if you have a reduction in appetite during summer, this should be considered normal but feeling nauseous or detesting food can mean that you are going to have an illness ranging from a simple cold to a strep throat. Swollen neck glands Swollen neck glands is a warning sign you may fall ill to illness including skin infections, ear infections or the common cold. The neck glands are just below the jawbones and the reason they usually swell is that when there is an infection, the dead cells and bacteria accumulate in the neck glands. Fatigue
Fatigue is not when you are tired after the day. It is characterised by being tired all the time or after very little work done. When you face fatigue, it is a sign you may be falling ill. Muscle aches A common symptom of the flu is aching muscles as the flu causes antibodies to be released and these antibodies produce histamines and cytokines, which may travel to muscles and trigger the pain receptors. Fever The body fights infections with a fever as the body is increasing its temperature to kill invading bacteria. Increased body temperature is a good way of knowing if you have infections. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.