The Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi has warned that the December 7, 2019 local council election was not worth spilling the blood of anyone. The governor threatened to deal decisively with those he described as trouble-makers who might want to derail the election and not allow it to represent democracy at its very best. Fayemi spoke through the Commissioner for Information, Mr. Muyiwa Olumilua, in Ado-Ekiti yesterday during a press conference heralding a sensitisation programme on local council election by National Orientation Agency (NOA) in conjunction with the Ekiti State government. Olumilua said a committee, which members were drawn from critical stakeholders, had been set up to sensitise the people on the need to eschew violence during the poll. The commissioner added that the utmost aim of the committee is to ensure that Ekiti has a poll that allows candidates of the parties to have a free and fair contest under which the votes of the people can count. “We must have an election that is free and devoid of violence and those plotting to cause trouble will be dealt with. “We are giving assurances that this election is going to be a clear departure from the past when the ruling party would have it all. We are saying that we will get a free and fair election that reflects the wishes of the people. “This disillusionment that because the ruling party is in charge and that it will surely carry the day is not there. I am not saying the ruling party if it is the acceptable and popular party won’t win or have an upper hand, but we are saying that it will be through a free and fair process,” he said. He said that the committee was set up to sensitise the people to prevent bloodshed during the election and not intended to teleguide or usurp the responsibility of the State Independent Electoral Commission (SIEC). “If anybody wins, the state has no problem with that, but I think a local election is not worth the blood of any man. “SIEC has its own responsibilities and we won’t dabble or interfere in that. All we want to do is to tell the people that no bloodshed and that election must be transparent,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .