 Everton’s Icelandic midfielder Gylfi Sigurdsson (C) celebrates with teammates after he scores his team’s second goal during the English Premier League football match between Everton and West Ham United at Goodison Park in Liverpool, north west England on October 19, 2019. (Photo by Paul ELLIS / AFP)  Wayne Hennessey produced fine saves to deny Bernardo Silva and Ilkay Gundogan in the first half, but two goals in quick succession from Gabriel Jesus and David Silva gave Pep Guardiola’s side a comfortable lead at the break. Christian Benteke powered a header against the crossbar in the second half, while Kevin de Bruyne struck the post with a header of his own as City moved to within five points of Jurgen Klopp’s charges in the standings. Marcos Alonso scored the only goal of the game as Chelsea beat Newcastle to claim their fifth successive league victory and move into the top four. Frank Lampard’s side struggled to create clear-cut chances in an even first half at Stamford Bridge, but Alonso’s superb angled drive earned the hosts all three points with 17 minutes remaining. In the day’s early game, Everton lifted the pressure on boss Marco Silva with a deserved 2-0 victory over a disappointing West Ham at Goodison Park. Read More: Man City back on track after Crystal Palace win Bernard finished a flowing Toffees move from a tight angle to open the scoring before second-half substitute Gylfi Sigurdsson sealed the win with a marvelous drive from the edge of the penalty area. Dele Alli salvaged a late point for Tottenham against Watford as VAR took centre stage in the Premier League yesterday. Abdoulaye Doucoure swept home Daryl Janmaat’s cross to open the scoring but when Hornets goalkeeper Ben Foster flapped at a late cross, Alli controlled the ball with his shoulder before firing into the unguarded net. The video assistant referee gave the goal following a review, but the big screen inside the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium indicated that Alli’s strike had been disallowed. After a period of confusion, the goal was eventually given and Watford was denied their first win of the season. Quique Sanchez Flores’ side also had a strong claim for a penalty turned down by the video assistant referee after Gerard Deulofeu was brought down by Jan Vertonghen in the first half. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .