NASFAT There are high expectations as the Nasrul Lahi-l-Fatih Society (NASFAT) plans to inaugurate new executives that would manage the affairs of the society from 2019 through 2021. Already, the Shurah report has been submitted to the Board of Trustees and the National Council of Elders. Publicity Secretary NASFAT, Banji Busari confirmed to The Guardian that the new helmsman of the Society is Alhaji Mumeen Olaniyi Yussuf, the former Managing Director of Accenture in Nigeria and now the Managing Director, Verraki Partners. Yussuf will be taking over from Engr Kamil Yomi Bolarinwa as the seventh president of NASFAT. Chief Missioner, NASFAT, Abdul Azeez Onike urged all office to be accountable, transparent and display high level of honesty. Chairman of the joint session, Alhaji Abdullateef Adewale Olasupo, also commended the Shura Committee led by its Chairman Alhaji Afunku for carrying out a painstaking job of selecting the best and experienced leaders for the society. The 25-member Executive led by Alhaji Niyi Yussuf will be inaugurated on Sunday October 20 at NASFAT Islamic Centre Aseese, Ogun State.
The inauguration lecture with the theme, Leadership As A Trust from Allah,will be delivered by the Chief Imam Yaba College of Technology Imam Salman Saheed. The event will be witnessed by the Governors of Lagos, Ogun, Oyo among others. Onike, who spoke at the Valedictory meeting held by the 2017-2019 Global Executive Council of the Society in Lagos, said enjoined all office holders be it political, religious, civil or public servants, voluntary associations to do regular self-appraisal, assessment and accounting of their stewardship in order to know whether they have discharged the trust entrusted on them appropriately. He congratulated the outgoing executives which he termed, “historical executive”, having been at the helms of affairs when the society made a lot of enviable achievements. He urged those who are exiting the executive council to continue to be part of efforts to grow the society by joining committees and ensuring that NASFAT remains a living reference point in building a peaceful relationship amongst tribes and faith, ensuring that Muslims and people of other faiths co-exist in harmony, breeding peaceful co-existence, promoting gender equity and be partner with others in nation building. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .