Adele | Photo – Twitter  As Nigeria celebrated its 59th Independence this week, many found new ways to express themselves willfully. While some became completely renewed, others broke out of relationships and hope for a better future. Here is a rundown of the week: Sad ending Actress Seyi Omooba is planning to sue a theatre and her former agents after she was fired from the play The Color Purple over a “homophobic” Facebook post. In March, Omooba was given a role as Celie – whose relationship with another woman is a central part of the story – in a stage adaptation of Alice Walker’s novel. She was later dropped after a Facebook post she had written in September 2014 on homosexuality resurfaced. Omooba, who denies that Celie is a lesbian character, said the theatre and her agents asked her to apologise but she refused. Found someone like you It appears Adele has found someone most likely better than whoever it is the song Someone like you was dedicated to. The multiple award-winning singer isn’t wasting any time getting back in the dating game after divorcing from husband Simon Konecki. According to the tabloids, she is dating British-Nigerian rapper and record producer Skepta as they have had a close relationship since her split. Both fan bases have been shocked, excited and all types of mixed emotions since the news broke. Skepta once dated Naomi Campbell. Name a better resume than this, we’d wait! Break-ups Celebrity couple, Kylie Jenner and Travis Scott split after two years of years dating. According to TMZ, the 22 years old make-up mogul and youngest billionaire in the world and the 28-year-old rapper have not been seen together in public since Travis “Look Mom, I Can Fly” documentary. According to reports, they fight over “ridiculous things”, but have still seen each other within this last month. The celebrity couple has agreed to split 50/50 custody and co-parent their daughter as they work out their personal issues. May love and light lead! Renewal Demi Lovato has found her way to God after getting baptized in the Jordan River where Jesus Christ himself was famously baptised by John the Baptist. The singer who posted some incredible photos wrote, “I am an American singer. I was raised Christian and have Jewish ancestors. When I was offered an amazing opportunity to visit the places I’d read about in the Bible growing up, I said yes.” Since her near-fatal overdose in Los Angeles, she has gone to rehab and celebrated a year of sobriety in July. Here is to new beginnings, Demi. No to bullying Prince Harry is officially putting an end to any form of bullying from his wife, Meghan, the Duchess of Sussex. Accusing the Mail of publishing “lies” of the father and weighing war against the duchess. He wrote, “Unfortunately, my wife has become one of the latest victims of a British tabloid press that wages campaigns against individuals with no thought to the consequences — a ruthless campaign that has escalated over the past year, throughout her pregnancy and while raising our newborn son.” The day of reckoning has come.   