The Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Muhammad Musa Bello, has said what Nigerian entrepreneurs truly need is a platform to show case their goods, and services, while also having access to credit for growth and sustainability. He stated, “They have reputation of being one of the most resourceful and tenacious business oriented individuals in the world.” The Minister said this fact has been acknowledged with the phenomenal growth of the Nigerian creative industry led by Nollywood, which has grown to become the third largest movie industry in the world, and 100 per cent home grown. He made the disclosure yesterday in his address to the official opening of the “Proudly Nigeria EXPO,” held in Abuja.
Represented by the Managing Director, Abuja Enterprises Agency (AEA), Arabi Tukur, said the need to look inwards has become imperative to enable indigenous entrepreneurs breakthrough. He urged financial institutions and credit providers to use the opportunity provided by the trade fair to meet the needs of entrepreneurs by giving them a chance to grow for oval all economic development. Earlier in an opening remarks, the President, “Helpline Foundation For the Needy,” organisers of the EXPO, Dr. Jumai Ahmadu, said concerned by the plunge in global oil prices, which has significantly altered the funds available for national development, it becomes imperative that the “Proudly Nigeria EXPO” provides a platform for indigenous innovations to chart a sustainable economic path for Nigeria’s development. She said: “We are here to officially open the second edition, which is a great improvement to the maiden edition because the young school boy who displayed some mechanical equipment during the first edition has been able to manufacture movable vehicles that was driven from Abaji to the city centre in the FCT.” She noted that science, technology and innovation (STI), is the backbone for industrialisation, and Nigeria must take advantage of her population to liberate the African continent technologically and otherwise. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .