It is not every day we get to see celebrity power couple, Kanye West and Kim Kardashian argue on TV but fans and viewers of Keeping Up With the Kardashians on Sunday night got an inside look at how Kim Kardashian’s 2019 Met Gala look came together and the drama that went down between her and Kanye West the night before she wore it. If you would recall, Kardashian stunned in a Thierry Mugler dress at the 2019 Met Gala although her super cinched waist was met with mixed reactions. She achieved the tiny waist by wearing a super tight corset that was designed by famed corset maker Mr Pearl months before the Met Gala. What many are unaware of is that the night before the event, West expressed his disapproval of his wife’s outfit saying that he didn’t like her showing her body off because it was affecting his soul and his spirit as a married man and father. West explained, “The corset, underwear, all of that vibe, I just feel like I just went through this transition where, from being a rapper, like, looking at all these girls, and looking at my wife, like, oh, my girl needs to be just like the other girls, showing her body off, showing this, showing that. And I didn’t realize that that was affecting, like, my soul and my spirit as someone that’s married and loved, and the father of, like, now what about to be four kids. A corset is like a form of underwear. It’s hot. It’s like, it’s hot for who, though?” At the time, Kimye, as the couple is fondly called, were just days away from becoming parents to their fourth child Psalm, who they welcomed via a surrogate. Responding to her husband’s disapproval, Kardashian expressed her anxiety, “You knew last night I was having really bad anxiety, and I don’t need any more negative energy for you to now say that you’re not into me wearing a tight dress. So the night before the Met, you’re gonna come in here and say that you’re not into a corset bust?’ Kim asked. ‘I’m getting really bad anxiety. What are you talking about? I don’t need any more negative energy for you to now say that you’re not into me in a tight dress,” she snapped back. Kim Kardashian in the controversia dress posing next to Kanye West at the 2019 Met Gala | Photo – Daily Mail West responded, “You are my wife and it affects me when pictures are too sexy.” Kardashian then reminded her husband that it was him who built her up to be a sexy and confident person in the first place. “You built me up to be, like, this sexy person and confident and all this stuff. And just because you’re on a journey, and you’re on your transformation doesn’t mean that I’m in the same spot with you.” “Alright, cool,” Kanye said, leaving. “That’s absolutely ridiculous,” Kardashian muttered. Kim confessed that she wanted to wear the dress because her father Rob Kardashian used to buy her Thierry Mugler’s fragrance, which made her feel connected to the designer. She said: “Being able to sit with him is such a full circle dream come true. ‘I has a corset made by Mr Pearl because I wanted to completely accentuate my body to make it as campy as possible. ‘It doesn’t hurt to wear it, but it feels like you’re doing a crunch and can’t get out of it, you literally can’t breathe.” Watch the video of their argument below:  