 Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo. Photo/Twitter/SeyiAMakinde  A statement by Chief Press Secretary to Governor Seyi Makinde, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, in Ibadan, indicated that N400 million had been advanced to secondary schools, while the primary schools got N126 million. The amount is to cover the running grants of the schools for the first term of the 2019/2020 academic session. According to the state government, principals of secondary schools, as well as heads of primary schools across the state, have been mandated to open accounts to receive the running grants. The statement also indicated that the N126 million approved for the primary schools has been released to the heads of the various schools. “Whereas the Ministry of Education is managing the disbursement to secondary schools, the State Universal Basic Education Commission (SUBEB) is handling the disbursement to primary schools. “The release of the funds is a fulfilment of Governor Seyi Makinde’s free education policy, which is already yielding positive results across the state. “As we speak, all the schools should have been credited except those who failed to supply the required account details on time. “We want to charge all stakeholders in the school system to judiciously apply the funds. They should also take note of the fact that the government will demand accountability on every kobo released to the schools. “On no account should any school administrator join forces with unscrupulous elements who are seeking to derail the free education policy, which the government of the day in Oyo State is diligently implementing. “The government will deal decisively with anyone caught attempting to derail the free and qualitative education policy or extorting students under whatever guise,” the statement read. In another development, as a result of the heavy rainfall, which had led to flooding and destruction of private and public infrastructure as well as loss of lives, Oyo State government has taken its sensitisation campaign to the Oke-Ogun area of the state to stem the effects of global warming in the area. The state’s Deputy Governor, Rauf Olaniyan, at a one-day awareness sensitisation programme in Saki, Saki West Local Council of the state, represented by the Secretary, Oyo State Emergency Agency (OYSEMA), Alhaji Luqmon Aransi, said the present administration had been factoring disaster risk reduction into her developmental strides to curb loss of life and property owing to natural disaster. He urged the people of Oke-Ogun to imbibe the culture of safety and work together alongside the state government to avert disaster. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .