Mining. PHOTO: kasapafmonline Nigeria has been tipped to lead the mining subsector of the global solid minerals industry. The Federal Government said that all the reforms in the solid mineral sector were aimed at making the country a prominent player role in global mining. The Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Olamilekan Adegbite, stated this when he appeared before the House of representatives Committee on Mines and that of Steel to brief it on the activities of the ministry. According to him, the ministry has worked out modalities to improve on the efforts and legacies of successive governments, acknowledging the initiatives of past ministers in establishing Mining Cadastre Office (MCO) and the Nigeria Geological Survey Agencies (NGSA). He said that part of the ministry’s mandate was to diversify the economy and to tap into the rich mineral resources of Nigeria to create employment and wealth. The minister further explained that the agencies were undergoing reforms to ensure optimal performance. “The activities of the MCO and NGSA are being computerised and uploaded online, so that at the touch of a button, investors from any part of the world can access information on all minerals in the country,” he added. Fielding questions from committee members on the ministry’s plan concerning artisanal miners, Adegbite said the problem of mining in Nigeria was that about 90 per cent of miners operate on a small scale. The Federal Government has created a legitimate buying centre to enable miners sell at the prevalent market price, to prevent exploitation of the small-scale miners, he disclosed. Chairman House Committee on Mines, Michael Enyong, acknowledged the desires of the two ministers to turn things around in the sector and promised that the committee would align with their patriotic desires to exploit solid minerals. Also, the managing director of Piramen Ventures, Josephine Emotan, has said that government’s incentives would help miners to develop the industry. Speaking at the mining week in Abuja, she expressed hope that the country’s mining space would improve tremendously in the years to make it a major player in the international market. The country is endowed with lead, gold, sapphire and other minerals but gets less value of each, she noted. “So, we need to close the gap and change the narrative because our people are just suffering and working for free. They suffer and mine the minerals and sell at ridiculous prices.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .