Chairman, Director of Sports Forum Nigeria, Tunde Kazeem has urged the Nigeria Muaythai Federation to be steadfast and resilient in their push for Muaythai to be re-admitted to the National Sports Festival, saying that Muaythai needed more grassroots recognition through the National Sports Festival. Speaking while welcoming to his office in Ilorin, Kwara State, board members of the federation, led by Comrade Paul Egonu, Kazeem said creating more awareness about the club would aid its acceptance by the youths across the country. The Muaythai Federation team met with states’ directors of sports at the just-concluded National Youth Games to solicit support for the re-inclusion of the sport at the forthcoming National Sports Festival in Edo State next year. At the meeting, they said their aim was to ensure more Nigerian youths embraced the sport at a competitive level. After the meeting, Kazeem who doubles as the director of sports, Kwara State, assured the federation of the support to achieve their aim. Comrade Paul Egonu had earlier visited the Edo 2020 National Sports Festival’s Consultant, Brown Ebewele in Benin City, where they agreed that Muaythai would return to the festival. Egonu and his board members were in the city to ensure the sport had a sound footing during the festival. He said the visit became necessary to give talented athletes a bigger platform to showcase their skills and win laurels for their respective states, adding that Muaythai, which featured at the national festival in the past, was dropped because some hosts could not provide the platform. He reiterated the federation’s commitment to ensure that Muaythai became a force to reckon with in Nigeria. Also speaking during the visit, Ebewele also assured the board of his effort support tom the efforts to re-admit the s
sport into the festival. He commended Egonu for his drive and vision to develop the sport at the grassroots.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .