MTN insists banks approved plan
The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), has ordered with immediate effect the stop of the planned N4 charge for the Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD), planned by telecoms operators.
   
A document signed by the Director of Public Affairs, NCC, Dr. Henry Nkemadu, yesterday, which ordered the suspension, put telecoms subscribers on note on its decision following Federal Government’s directive.
   
NCC also put financial institutions on the note on its decision to suspend the plan.
   
Meanwhile, while complying with the order, MTN insisted that it got the backing of the banks and the Board of Banks Chief Executive Officers (BOBCEOS) for the introduction of the service.  She disclosed that it is in line with the National Financial Inclusion Strategy of the Federal Government that MTN resisted the calls for end-user billing, adding: “We relented only after exhausting avenues of engagement with the banks in pursuit of a model that enabled a single charge. We believe separate charges by the banks and telecoms companies are an unnecessary burden on the consumer especially the target group that the National Financial Inclusion Strategy is aimed at.
  
“With this in mind, it is imperative for all parties to approach the table and engage constructively towards a solution, putting the consumer at the fore of all decisions.
  
“ The banks have been and still are our esteemed customers and valued partners. We look forward to collaborating with them and other stakeholders and will be glad to implement the decisions approved by our Regulators.”
   
Likewise, the Association of Licensed Telecoms Operators of Nigeria (ALTON), called for a meeting among the stakeholders involved in the matter.
    
According to the Chairman of ALTON, Gbenga Adebayo, “In view of this, we call on the Nigerian Communications Commission, the Central Bank of Nigeria, financial and telecoms stakeholders to address this matter urgently for the benefit of consumers.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .