 Director General of FAO, Qu Dongyu  Director General of FAO, Qu Dongyu, said that to achieve zero hunger by 2030, all forms of malnutrition must be globally addressed among all income groups. Dongyu stated this yesterday on the sidelines of this year’s World Food Day (WFD) with the theme, “Healthy Diets for a Zero Hunger World,” in Maiduguri, Borno State, which focuses on healthy diets among the people in North East, Nigeria and across the world. The Director-General, who was represented by FAO Representative at its Head Office in Maiduguri, Al Hassan Cisse, said: “Eradicating hunger is FAO’s topmost priority, but we also need to address all forms of malnutrition.” He disclosed that the latest data shows that malnutrition is increasing across all regions and among income groups. He, therefore, urged action to make healthy and sustainable diets that could be accessible and affordable to everyone, adding that to achieve this, there should be fundamental partnership among governments, farmers, researchers, the Organized Private Sector (OPS) and consumers. Besides, the Enugu State Government has appealed to farmers to increase the production of quality food for the healthy living of the people. The state’s Commissioner for Agriculture, Matthew Idu, made the appeal in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Enugu on the sidelines of this year’s WFD held every October 16. Also in Osun State, food vendors embarked on awareness campaign against taking of unwholesome food and maintaining proper hygiene. The awareness took members of the Association of Food Vendors in Nigeria (AFVIN), through the popular Olaiya Junction, MDS, Orisumbare Market, Freedom Park, Old Garage, Okefia, Alekunwodo to Fakunle area all in Osogbo. Speaking with journalists during the awareness programme, the coordinator of AFVIN in Osun, Comrade Muideen Alao, said the programme was organised in line with the World Health Organization (WHO’s) standards, especially as regards consumption of good and healthy foods. However, the All Farmers Association of Nigeria (AFAN), Cross River Chapter, has said that the deplorable condition of roads was responsible for the drop in food supply in the state. Chairman of the Association, Etim Nakanda, said this in Calabar to commemorate this year’s WFD. Meanwhile, Executive Director, Institute of Agricultural Research and Training (IAR&T) Ibadan, Oyo State, Prof. Veronica Obatolu has urged the Federal Government to increase investments in agriculture to create jobs for youths in the country. She said government’s increased funding of the sector would improve small-scale farmers’ productivity and income through value chain development and encouragement of farmers’ cooperative groups. Obatolu said Federal Government’s closure of the nation’s borders would gave room for consumers to seek alternatives in locally produced food items, thereby improving farmers’ incomes. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .