 Abiola Ajimobi  The aggrieved members, comprising political appointees, former members of the state House of Assembly and House of Representatives, former senators, former commissioners, former special advisers, and other aides to the immediate past Governor Abiola Ajimobi and other faithful leaders of the party, appealed to members to take the reconciliation with all seriousness. The group in a communiqué issued after its emergency meeting in Ibadan, which was signed by its Chairman, Chief Lowo Obisesan and other members of the executive that include Jide Adewale, Olatunbosun Kunle Wasiu, Yemi Akinlabi, Adekunle Muktar, Soji Ojoawo, Biodun Adegoke and Dipo Fawole, said all the key players in the last election had learnt their lesson and resolved that the only way out is true reconciliation. The communiqué further urged all the self-acclaimed leaders of the party in the state to learn from the leadership style of the national leader of the party, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who always fixes leaders, rather than pursuing selfish interest. The factional group, which regretted the crisis that led to the defeat of the party in the 2019 elections in the state, said there was need to restore peace in the party to avoid repeat of such defeat in 2023, adding: “Following the misrule by the incumbent government in the state, which led to borrowing N17 billion in less than six months, we have to summon an emergency meeting to ensure avoidance of the 2019 general elections. “We resolve that we are ready for genuine reconciliation of our members. We appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari, the National Chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole and the National Leader of our party, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu, to set up a team that will have genuine interest of the party at heart to intervene in crisis across the state. “We also appeal to all the self-acclaimed leaders and elders in the state to bury their selfish interest and embrace peace, and emulate the national leader of our party, who in his wisdom fixes his subordinate in positions across the country.”It, therefore, urged Governor Seyi Makinde to be mindful of his borrowing in the name of the state. Meanwhile, the Oyo State Chapter of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday said that the state’s chapter of the APC should bury itself in ignominy for turning out a below par performance within its eight years rule of the state. The party, in a statement by its Publicity Secretary, Akeem Olatunji, said that the name of APC in Oyo could conveniently be replaced with hunger, oppression and deception.The ruling party in the state, which also described the APC as sore losers in respect of its criticisms of Makinde’s policies and programmes, said: “That the rule of the APC between 2011 and 2019 was lacklustre would be stating the obvious but the party also signifies deception at its height. “Instead of being sober and coming out to profusely apologise for their failings, the APC is showcasing a sort of repulsive audacity, that is only drawing the people to anger.”For now, they should thank their stars that they have in Makinde a calm personality who is not vindictive in any way.”The PDP said its statement was in response to the lingering arguments about the reconstruction works on Iwo Road interchange. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .