In a bid to give back to humanity, the Rotary Club of Falomo, District 9110, Lagos at the weekend raised funds to make life better for the less privileged in society in an event tagged ‘Membership Night’. Speaking at the event, Mrs. Julie Aniete Nkanga, president of the club, who has been a Rotarian since her undergraduate days, said the driving force of the club is spurred by the spirit to serve and give back to the humanity. She added that membership night was a time when Rotarians invite their friends and families to come and see what they do, because a lot of people did not know what Rotary is all about and perhaps some of them may pick interest in rotary and join the cause. Sharing some of the club’s contribution to the community, Nkanga said the club has done many projects, one of which was the donation of generating set and hospital equipment at Ado area of Lagos. According to the president: “We are also looking forward to sinking boreholes in that area because they don’t have water and with God on our side, we plan to conclude that project before the end of my tenure as the president of this branch. “Our next project a vocational training which will be holding in Ikoyi prison, it’s going to be a two weeks program and we are going to be training the prisoners about five different skills and the grand finale will be on October 25 where the best in each skill group will get a cash reward. “The whole essence is to help the prisoners so that by the time they are leaving the prison, they don’t go back to whatever brought them to the prison. We are also currently running a free eye test, free cataracts surgery and we will also be giving out free eye glasses. We have started this project since September where we had an ophthalmologist attend to people . Free eye test was conducted on about 230 people out of which hundred persons were selected for free eye surgery and about fifty of them will be getting free eye glasses this month,” she noted. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .