The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) yesterday condemned the persistent occurrence of sexual harassment against students, saying it was not unique to universities but also prevalence in the society and religious settings. Speaking yesterday, chairman of the association in Lagos axis, Comrade Busari Adelaja, said it was time to speak and stand up for victims of sexual abuse, stressing that the culture of silence must come to an end. Adelaja urged universities to have a clear sexual and violence policies that would protect students and the sanctity of the educational system. He added that universities should be accountable for the well-being of students, ensure justice for survivor of sexual abuse and the will to prosecute and punish offenders. He said: “We call for urgent action to address sexual harassment against students. It is so barbaric that the issue of sexual harassment against women was not unique to universities but has become prevalent in the society, including religious settings. We condemn sexual harassment against students totally, it was unacceptable as the nation’s educational system had suffered many set backs that had hindered its development.” The group also lamented the rate at which students were being threatened, suspended, and rusticated in tertiary institutions. “This is inclusive of suspending the union bodies (Students Union Governments) who can speak for the students in their various campuses. In order to avert the use of protest and the image it may paint to the world, we urge the governments at various levels to interfere and help us stop the increment in tertiary institutions school fees and bring our voice (SUG) back to UNILAG and Yabatech respectively.” On the many challenges faced by the students, Adelaja disclosed that the association’s Lagos chapter would organize an event to discuss ‘Students Against Violence Everywhere in Lagos (SAVE Lagos)’.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .