Dr. Francis Akinremi. The Head of Department, Management Studies, National Institute for Sports (NIS), Dr. Francis Akinremi, is appealing to the Minister of Youth and Sports Development for justice over his missing file. He said he suspects the file could be doctored and eventually used against him by the time he ascends the throne as oba of Ifetedo in Osun State. Akinremi, who is an Oba-elect, said his ordeal began in 2014 when he was the branch chairman of the Academic Staff Union of Research Institution (ASURI), NIS, during the tenure of former NIS director, Dr. Sunny Ikhioya. According to Akinremi, he disagreed with Dr. Ikhioya’s management of the institute’s funds meant for staff welfare and other purposes. He said his file suddenly disappeared when he disagreed with Ikhioya as the union’s head, adding that since he would be retiring next year, it would be expedient for him to seek justice before exiting the service. “In as much as I agree that the file is government’s property, but the content in it are mine. If my original file cannot be found, which I know is with somebody at the institute, then I think I need to head to court before I retire from the NIS,” he said. In a recent protest letter to the NIS registrar also submitted to The Guardian, Akinremi said, “It is apropos for me to remind your office that my file was not missing in transit, but was doctored, seized, investigated and traceable to former director, Dr. O.S.A Ikhioya and his cohorts. “My file got missing in 2014 when I was the branch chairman of ASURI, NIS Lagos, in which I accused the then former director and his cohorts of maladministration, misappropriation of the Federal Government funds, inflation of contracts, just to mention but a few, while neglecting the statutory functions of NIS and welfare of the entire staff, as contained in the provision of the Laws of Nigeria. “ASURI under my chairmanship and the national body was flabbergasted by the impunity, personal vendetta, witch-hunting and gross victimisation by the then administration.” He added that his actions then were not personal but as the chairman of NIS ASURI branch under the “Freedom of Information Act (FOI), the whistle blower and anti-corruption policies of the Federal Government of Nigeria.” Akinremi said after 26 years in service with the NIS, he would like to see his file before calling it quits with the institute. “I have served the NIS for 26 years, from 1993 till date and I rose to become the HOD of Management Studies, NIS. I demand to see my official file, which was last seen in the custody of Dr. O.S.A Ikhioya,” he stated. When The Guardian called Ikhioya, he picked up the call, but refused to speak. However, his close confidant, Mr. Tistet G. Kamlong, who spoke to The Guardian, however, refused to comment on the issue. “No, I cannot comment on it. The case is already somewhere being treated, so I cannot comment on it to any newspaper. Please I am sorry,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .