Cross River State Governor Ben Ayade has promised to revive as well as start the full implementation of the state’s scholarship programme for indigenes of the state in higher institutions. Ayade stated this in Calabar during a courtesy visit by the leadership of National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), Students Union Government and Law Students Association of University of Calabar, Students Union Government of Cross River University of Technology (CRUTECH) and the National Association of Northern Cross River Students. He said: “I will initiate, institute and operate a full scholarship programme for young Cross Riverians in higher institutions. Here I am committing that the Cross River State government will start the full implementation of a scholarship programme. “For all that God has given to me and all the blessings as a person, the Ayade scholarship programme that has always been running will come back in full force from this year. “The Ayade scholarship programme is going to be statewide and will be drawn from my private businesses and nothing to do with government. Those who are not lucky to get from the government scholarship will be lucky to get from the Ayade scholarship programme, for it is when you give back to the society that society will be there for you.” The governor, while imploring the students to be morally upright, cautioned them never to materialise or monetise their relationship, saying: “The greatest relationship between people is emotional. When you put your eyes on value, the money will come naturally, but once your focus is on money, the value will depart and the money will never come. “As young people with a great opportunity for leadership, whatever comes from your word, every single word of yours defines your future. Character, therefore, defines a personality as no fatalism can arrogate the supremacy of the future on the hands of mere destiny. The destination is an architectural process by the intellectual engineering of a person through the attainment of a Godhead, which means your attitude designs your future.” He also urged the students to give undivided attention to their studies and shun cultism. Meanwhile, presidents of the various students’ bodies applauded the governor’s magnanimity and benevolence, especially in the prompt response to the welfare of ailing students, the industrialisation drive aimed at decoupling the state from dependence on federal allocations as well as setting Cross River on a trajectory growth. The SUG President of the University of Calabar, Moses Derrick, however, decorated him (Ayade) with the honour of “Commander of the Order of Malabor.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .