 Execute Director, Nigeria Film And Video Censor Board (NFVCB) Alh. Adedayo Thomas (left); actress Ini Edo; ED, The African International Film Festival (AFRIFF), Chioma Ude; Public Affairs Officer, U.S. Consulate General Lagos, Russell Brooks and CEO, Century Group, Ken Atete at the AFRIFF 2019 Programme Announcement at Radisson Blu, V.I., Lagos.  Speaking at a media briefing in Lagos to unveil the festival, Founder of AFRIFF, Chioma Ude said, “We are proud to theme this year’s festival as one dedicated to Sheroes, those who enable us to dream and to celebrate story telling which challenge society.” The festival, which would take place from Sunday10 to Saturday16 November, at the newly built Filmhouse Cinemas at Landmark Retail Village, Oniru, would focus on training and supporting more female filmmakers. According to Ude, the festival received a record-breaking number of 4000 submissions this year from over 130 countries, the highest it has received since inception. It would screen about 150 projects, including features, shorts and documentaries. The festival would feature cinematic experience, business networking, movie premieres, film screenings, industry sessions, master classes, workshops, the Globe Awards, and other events that have become the hallmark of AFRIFF. This year’s festival will open with Waad Al-Kateab and Edward Watts’ film, For Sama, a documentary on a female experience during war and close with Akin Omotoso’s The Ghost And The House Of Truth, a film on crime, convicts and forgiveness.United States Consulate Public Affairs Officer, Russell Brooks, at the event noted that U.S., through American Film Showcase, would host a four-day documentary film workshop for Nigerian filmmakers during the festival to support. “The workshop is designed to build the capacity of Nigerian filmmakers to tell authentic and compelling stories in order to address societal ills.“Twenty-five local filmmakers will be selected through a competitive process to participate in the free workshop and during the workshop, participants will learn storytelling techniques, as well as shoot and edit mini documentary films.”Following up with the workshop, a competition would be launched for filmmakers to make documentary films that address topics affecting the Nigerian public.