 International Pairs winners, Ajibade Adeyinka (left) and Raji Tukur displaying the trophy they won at the national final of International in Uyo… at the weekend  The duo had a combined score of 76 points over two days to steal the show at the national finals of this year’s International Pairs competition, which holed out at the Ibom Hotel & Golf Resort on Sunday. They defeated over 50 other pairs who took part in the two-day competition. As Nigerian champions, Ajibade and Tukur will enjoy an all-expense-paid trip to the world finals. Excited by the honour of representing Nigeria, the duo has promised to be worthy representatives, saying they will work hard to make Nigeria proud among over 30-other countries that will take in the Portugal finals. While describing their success as a good example of a partnership that works, Ajibade said, “Everything worked in our favour this week. We were calm and the gods of golf were also with us. We were on the course for each other. That partnership was what gave us victory.” Also speaking at the end of the event¸ Tukur added, “This is the best golf I have ever played in my life. My partner was my backbone. Honestly, I can’t ask for a better partner.” Okey Igwe, former Captain of IBB International Golf and Country Club, Abuja, also made history at the event, shooting his first-ever hole-in-one in a competitive event. It was also the first to be recorded in the Six-year history of International Pairs in Nigeria. While thanking every participant for their spirit of sportsmanship, International Pairs representative in Nigeria, Remi Olukoya said he would continue to work hard to improve on the quality of the tournament. “We are not stopping here; we will continue to work hard to improve on the quality of the tournament. This year we have learnt something new,” he said. The monthlong competition was supported by NCDMB, AirFranceKLM, CAP Plc, makers of Dulux Paint, Doll Designs, RwandAir, Ibom Air, UAC Foods and several Individuals. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .