Sports Minister, Sunday Dare (third right) with athletes and officials of Making of Champions in Lagos… yesterday. The Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, has hailed the effort of the Making of Champions (MOC) Limited in maximising the potential of athletes, describing it as a model for the ministry and others to emulate if sports development was to be achieved in the country. The outfit founded by the Bambo Akani is a sports media and management company set up to elevate the profile and performance of sports in Nigeria and the rest of Africa. Dare, who was at the Teslim Balogun Stadium, Surulere, Lagos State yesterday to see for himself some of the athletes, who won various medals for the country at the last Africa Games in Morocco, now undergoing training with eyes on winning medals at next year’s Olympics in Tokyo, Japan, stated that with more MOC around, that the desired development in sports in the country is imminent. “I read a lot about the Making of Champions, and I think what we have going here is something that is instructive apart from being commendable because what Bambo is doing is exceptional. “If we have a number of Bambo across the country, about a dozen of them doing what he is doing with this team, I think there will be a major contribution to sports development, especially in athletics,” he said, adding that the outfit’s effort on the athletes has become a success story considering the discipline they have been able to impart at MOC. “But I think Bambo story is also a success story because you the athletes are discipline people and you have put yourself through the process. In fact you are still going through the process. You make Bambo successful, but then you make this country proud because whatever he is doing now, the Making of Champions is gradually becoming an institution, a model hopefully the ministry will also replicate. “The message today is that the ministry recognises what Bambo and his team are doing with MOC, which is commendable. It is a model that is workable, timely and the ministry recognises this. The ministry will in fact provide support for MOC and also for the athletes that are Olympics bound. “We will encourage, support you for your training and camping as the case may be. The Making of Champions does have a couple of other efforts going on for them and the ministry we will extend her support to them,” he stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .