Delta State Governor, H.E Sen. Dr. Ifeanyi Arthur Okowa. Photo/Twitter/GovIfeanyiOkowa Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa has assured investors of his administration’s commitment to a peaceful environment in the state. Okowa gave the assurance at the weekend during the commissioning of legacy projects executed by Platform Petroleum Limited/Newcross Petroleum Limited, joint venture (JV) operators of the Egbaoma Marginal Field in Umutu, Ukwuani Council of the state. According to a statement by the governor’s Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Olisa Ifeajika, the commissioned projects include a steel bridge across River Ethiope at Adonishaka, a block of 10 flats at Ogbeuzu-Uno, Information and Communications Technology (ICT) building at Akoku-Uno, Okpala-Uku palace at Umueziogoli and a six-classroom block at Igili Grammar School, Umutu. Okowa, represented by the Commissioner for Oil and Gas, Emman Amgbaduba, further stated that his administration was committed to making the state an enviable investment destination in the country. The governor commended the host communities for the peaceful relationship between them and the management of the company. His words, “Let me, on behalf of the state, thank Platform/Newcross Petroleum JV for these laudable projects. “We are always proud and joyful to see projects like this executed by oil companies for their host communities. It is pertinent to state that such projects can only be achieved through understanding, dialogue and peaceful relations, which are the outcome of the company’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). “As a state, we are totally committed to promoting a peaceful environment for investors by preaching peace and adherence to Global Memorandums of Understanding (GMoUs) by stakeholders.” He challenged other oil companies and host communities to borrow a leaf from the peaceful relations between Platform/Newcross and their host communities. “Our communities need more of these developmental strides to make the contributions of investors visible and beneficial to indigenes of our communities. “Let me also state emphatically that such developmental projects and more can only be achieved in an environment where peace thrives. So I encourage our host communities to continue to be peaceful and friendly to motivate investors and the state government to do more,” he added. Earlier in his welcome address, the Managing Director of Platform Petroleum, Osa Oweiadolor, said the company had continued to demonstrate commitment to CSR through consistent execution of projects to better the lot of key stakeholders. “In the past 15 years, we have completed road projects, water schemes, community halls, pedestrian bridges, and school buildings among others spread within the host communities. “We have done this in recognition of the vital role of human capital as the bedrock of strategic sustainable development of any society. This informed our award of scholarship and skill acquisition for the benefit of hundreds of indigenes from the four host communities. “It is, therefore, not an exaggeration to say that the Platform/Newcross JV is truly built on best practices and social responsibility,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .