The Federal Nigeria Society for the Blind (FNSB) has advocated a White Cane Law to assist the blind in the country access to mobility without fear of molestation and harassment by motorists and other road users. Lamenting lack of basic infrastructure, especially roads, the group described the state of Lagos roads and those in other parts of the country as appalling and solicited government’s urgent intervention to fix roads across the country. Speaking on the sidelines of this year’s White Cane day, which holds today globally, chairman of FNSB, Yinka Akande, specifically asked the Lagos State government in collaboration with the State House of Assembly to facilitate the White Cane Law as it obtains in other climes. He disclosed that FSNB will hold its 14th annual White Cane Safety Day Walk on Saturday October 19, with the theme, “Safety is Key” at the Vocational Training Centre (VTC) in Lagos. “The White Cane Safety Day Walk is held as a public enlightenment and advocacy programme to promote the White Cane as a mobility tool and symbol of independence for blind and visually impaired persons.
Also speaking, Adeola Obagun and Lanre Adebayo, who explained the features of the white cane, urged good spirited Nigerians, government and corporate organisations to assist the centre with N10 million to enable it to acquire the white canes for its students, adding that it takes at least N850,000 to train a blind individual for two years. John Yekini and Nocholas Obot conducted journalists round the library, music school, resource room, recording studio and skills acquisition unit where the blind are taught the art of making soaps, beaded bags, baskets, as well as tie and dye. Yekini told The Guardian that, “A blind man who desires to be successful must work extra hard to achieve his dreams. Being blind is not an excuse to be a liability to society. People with visual impairment should find themselves useful to others and their communities.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .