 Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun  The governor insisted that his administration’s decision to demolish the school located in Ilaro area was not to witch-hunt the former governor but to prevent looming disaster. Governor Abiodun made the disclosure at a town hall meeting with stakeholders from Ogun West Senatorial District. The meeting was organised by the state government for the people of the district to contribute to the 2020 budget. Reacting to the various demands of the people, the governor said his administration was committed to ensuring that “the commonwealth used in building capital projects does not waste, irrespective of who made the investment.” While noting that his administration had renovated one of the schools in Kobape area and converted it to an information and communication technology centre, named Tech Hub, he assured that the school would be reconstructed and converted to a technical training college. The governor has however offered automatic employment to Miss Esther Akintola who graduated with a cumulative grade point average of 3.90 out of the maximum 4.00 of the Federal Polytechnic, Ilaro. She would commence work immediately after her national youth service. Abiodun made this known yesterday at the 40th anniversary and 19th convocation of the polytechnic, held in the school premises. He said that his decision to offer the best graduating student automatic employment was to encourage others. The governor commended the management of the institution for producing the new set of graduates whom he said would join the league of qualified human resources for the continued development of the state, stressing the importance of schools, parents, government and other stakeholders matching the school curriculum with the development needs of the society. He noted that his administration would continue to give education the priority it deserves, adding that the state remains committed to qualitative education for children in the state, irrespective of their location, gender or social status. “Our belief is that an educated citizenry would not only be useful to themselves, but will also contribute positively to the development of our dear state. This is the underlining message of the ‘Building our Future Together’ agenda,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .