 Head, Global Markets, Stanbic IBTC Bank PLC, Sam Ocheho (left), Team Captain, UNICAL Malabites, Ikponwonsa Osarumen and CEO, Higher Institutions Sports League (HiSL), Sola Fijabi, during the trophy presentation at the finals of 2019 Higher Institutions Football League at Agege stadium Lagos…at the weekend.  The league, its second edition, also saw UNILORIN Warriors having their pound of flesh against Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU) in a thrilling third place encounter, which also ended in a draw before the Warriors emerged as winners in a penalty shootout. The finals took place last weekend at the Agege Township Stadium in Lagos. This year’s competition was an expanded field, with 32 universities featured in over 66 matches to decide the winner. The sponsor, Stanbic IBTC, member of the Standard Bank Group, expressed satisfaction with the organisation and conduct of the 2019 HiFL.The Head, Global Markets, Stanbic IBTC Bank, Mr Sam Ocheho, who represented the institution at the final said they were pleased to be part of the success.Ocheho commended the promoters of the competition, PACE Sports and Entertainment Marketing, for the success, from the preliminary stage to the finals. “As an organisation, we are known for delivering quality products and services to our customers and for our excellent people-oriented initiatives. So, we are always careful to work with partners who share our culture of excellence and adept management,” Ocheho stated. Stanbic IBTC said its sponsorship of the league was in line with its objective to provide genuine platforms of engagement for Nigerian youths, where they can showcase their talents and foster unity among them and contribute to youth development. Also speaking at the final, President, Nigerian University Games Association (NUGA), one of the league partners, Prof Stephen Hamafyelto, said: “We have once again delivered on the promises we made regarding standards, discipline, fair-play, especially as it concerns delivering a bigger and better league season.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .