 Seyi Makinde of Oyo State  A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to Governor Makinde, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, said that the governor gave the charge at the second anniversary of Ondo State PDP Support Group (PSG) held in Akure, the state capital. The governor stated that the PDP in Ondo must remain united to face future electoral challenges. Makinde, who was represented by his Deputy Chief of Staff, Mr. Abdul Mojeed Mogbonjubola, said that he was ready to join hands with the state chapter of the PDP to achieve the needed unity. According to him, Ondo State used to be one of the strongholds of the PDP in the South-West, adding that without unity of purpose, the target of electoral success could be a mirage. He stated that all hands aimed at rebuilding the party must be on deck ahead of future challenges. The event, which was held at BTO Hall in Akure, Ondo State, featured a lecture with the theme, “PDP: Harnessing the trust of the people,” which was delivered by Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer (MD/CEO) of TPT International, Chief Tokunbo Modupe. The Co-ordinator of the group, Bode Obanla, said that the gathering was to discuss the fortunes of the party with all eyes focused on future challenges, adding that the gathering was also aimed at galvanising members of the PSG to ensure that they all take responsibility for the needs to ensure success for the party in its future endeavours. Obanla said: “But we have succeeded where many have failed and achieved unprecedented unity for our party in a period of war. That, once again, proved that no single political party has the internal cohesive structure like the PDP.” He said that the PSG as a group had achieved successes for itself, which enabled the leadership of PDP to be able to adequately respond to trends within the Nigerian polity and to constantly position the party at an advantage. Obanla, who urged all the PDP faithful to remain loyal to the party and shun all divisive antics capable of destroying the party, asked members of the group to embrace oneness as they go into the next election in the state. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .