Edo governor, Godwin Obaseki<br />Photo: Twitter/GovernorObaseki • Tasks Oshiomhole on courtesies, sacks political aides in all 18 councils
Governor Godwin Obaseki has condemned attempts by some ‘unscrupulous’ elements to cause mayhem in Edo, insisting that his administration would not tolerate acts of hooliganism in any guise in the state. He also urged the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, to always put the state chapter of the party and the state government on notice when visiting for accordance of courtesies due to him as a national figure. In a statement by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Osarodion Ogie, the current administration said its attention “has been drawn to reports in the media over activities of some unscrupulous elements attempting to create a resurgence of the menace of thuggery in the state which this government has succeeded in bringing to an end.” He said: “As a government, “we have worked extremely hard to ensure that opportunities are created for all citizens to leverage on government’s initiatives and earn a living legitimately without resort to crime and criminality. “With regards to the purported attack on Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, government wishes to reiterate the comment of the Edo State Commissioner of Police, Dan Mallam Muhammed to the effect that the purported attack ‘never happened’. Government also wishes to stress that in Edo State, tangible investment has been made by government to enhance security for our citizens. It is not an accident that Edo is considered as one of the most peaceful states in Nigeria.” Besides, the governor yesterday sacked all political appointees in the state’s 18 councils. A government statement said all special advisers, senior special assistants, secretaries to the local governments and supervisory councilors were affected. Earlier this month, Obaseki sacked over 300 political appointees while four council chairmen, namely Eghe Ogbemudia (Egor); Patrick Aguinede, (Esan West); Alhaji Yakson Musa (Etsako West); and Aremiyau Momoh of Etsako East had been suspended for alleged corrupt activities. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .