You may know Cardi B as a loud-mouthed former stripper turned rap star or you may see her as the vocal rapper who makes constant reference to God. Despite the fact that Cardi B is an ex-stripper and makes use of lewd and profane lyrics in her music, she never shies away from alluding her success to the grace of God.  Cardi B’s celebration and claiming of Jesus may come as surprise to some Christians who have so categorized and controlled what a “good Christian” looks like that they have excluded all things that aren’t explicitly holy and sanctified from being considered legitimate image-bearers of God. In a series of tweets, the female rapper who recently turned 27 made it clear to her followers and all those who care to listen that she believes in God and said she never thinks she’s too big for God, neither does she “take his name for vain “. According to her, she went on to explain why this is so and called out those who say she brings up God to justify what she does. She tweeted: “I will never think I’m to big for God .God knows my feelings,God knows my sensitivity, God knows my emotions,God knows my intentions .If I’m ever wrong I ask God forgiveness because what I might thing is right is wrong but I as forgiveness to the LORD Not to YOU! “Hate when people say i bring up God to justify what I do. No. I bring up God because he the one that knows how I really feel .He the one that hears my prayers the one who knows what makes me happy, mad, hurt, sad. He know My intentions and I don’t take his name for vain.” She added: “People out here talking bout other people karma and how they heart works while constantly pushing hatred propaganda, how that works, mhhhmm how your heart work ?but the more people trey to destroy me the MORE I RISE! Facts!” It would be recalled that when her song “I Like It,” featuring Bad Bunny and J Balvin was atop the music chart as well as her feature with Maroon 5 track “Girls Like You”, she took to Twitter on Monday (June 11) to send gratitude to her fans “for making this happen” and to God. She wrote: “If I was to see God, if I was to see Jesus Christ in my dreams today, I would kiss his feet. Like I really want to give, I wish I could give God a hug, bro.”