 [FILES] Nigeria army. Photo: YAHOO  The Nigerian Army Operations Media Coordinator, Col. Aminu Iliyasu, said this in a statement on Friday in Abuja. Iliyasu said that the troops of Sector 3 Operation Lafiya Dole (OPLD) had recovered an additional four AK47 Riffles and one Rocket Propelled Gun (RPG) Tube, one 60mm Commando Mortar. According to him, the troops also recovered one abandoned Gun Truck and one Motorcycle belonging to the fleeing Boko Haram criminals. He added that the troops deployed at Gubio successfully repelled a Boko Haram attack on their location and neutralised one of the terrorists. According to him, one AK47 Riffle, one magazine, one Very High Frequency (VHF) Radio, one mobile phone in addition to syringes/ample of injections were recovered during mop-up operations. “Additionally, troops of 231 Battalion arrested one Boko Haram criminal suspect named Baana Zakari also known as Okocha at Biu main Motor Park. “Preliminary investigation reveals that the suspect acts as an informant to Boko Haram criminals within Bama general area. “Furthermore, troops of 231 Battalion in conjunction with 331 Artillery Regiment and Vigilantes arrested another logistics supplier, Alhaji Lawan, also known as Caffenol at Maina Hari checkpoint. “He was arrested while trying to cross with some consignments believed to be meant for the criminals. “Items recovered from the suspect include two jerricans of palm oil, two jerricans of vegetable oil, two cartons of biscuits, one carton of spaghetti and 30 packets of mosquito coils. “Suspect is already making useful confessions to interrogators,” he said. Iliyasu further disclosed that the Joint Tactical Team made a significant arrest of an Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) logistics supplier and courier. He said that preliminary investigation revealed that the suspect, Usman Yage, (Chadian) had maintained communication with Goni Jere, Abul Qaqa and Modu Sulum who are all top wanted Boko Haram/ISWAP commanders. According to him, investigations further revealed that the suspect used one of Goni Jere’s phone numbers to purchase vehicles and motorcycles spare parts for ISWAP. He added that the suspect was in possession of motorcycle spare parts and locally made smoke perfumes which were intended to be delivered to Goni Jere. The spokesperson further disclosed that army operations in other parts of the country had resulted in a number of arrests and recoveries in recent time. He also said that troops of 144 Battalion (Rear) under operation MESA had intercepted and arrested one Chinedu Mark in Abiriba in Ohafia Local Government Area of Abia. He said that the suspect was in possession of a locally-made pistol and two cartridges hidden in a polythene bag stuffed with garri. According to him, the suspect confessed that he was conveying the arms to three of his friends who are now at large.
“Similarly, troops of 102 Guards Battalion arrested an imposter while on routine patrol along Jere–Katari–Kaduna–Abuja Expressway extorting money from motorists. “The suspect, Godspower Linus, was found with a fake Military ID Card, camouflage jungle hat, military belt, and a motorcycle. “In addition, between Oct. 12 and 14, troops in the Niger Delta Region have intensified their operations against illegal oil bunkering, piracy, kidnapping, armed robbery, and other sundry crimes. “During the period, the troops destroyed four identified illegal oil refining sites, 6 large metal storage tanks containing illegally refined Automated Gas Oil (AGO) and four large ground reservoirs. “Also recovered were 6,000 litres of stolen crude oil and 80,000 litres of refined products in plastic drums and Jerri cans as well as two vehicles and a motorcycle,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .