Diabetes is a medical condition that hinders the body’s ability to process blood glucose, otherwise known as blood sugar. A group of diseases that result in too much sugar in the blood (high blood glucose). Uncontrollable diabetes can develop other chronic diseases like heart disease, stroke and kidney failure. Diabetes affects millions of people worldwide and can get worse over time if not properly treated or managed. According to Healthline, these are some tips for preventing the risk of diabetes More exercise…As far as exercise and diabetes are concerned, the more, the better. The researchers found that any exercise is beneficial in staving off diabetes, but individuals who exceeded the 150 minute recommendation saw the greatest benefits. PHOTO CREDIT: http://exerciseismedicine.org.za Quit Smoking: The consumption of tobacco increases your blood sugar level and lead to insulin resistance. The more you smoke; you increase your chances of diabetes. Cut Sugar and Refined Carbs From Your Diet: Consuming sugary food and refined carbs can increase the risk for an individual to develop diabetes. Consuming food that won’t affect your blood sugar will help reduce the risk of diabetes. Exercise: Different types of physical activity have shown to reduce the risk of blood sugar in overweight, insulin resistance and obese. Frequent exercise helps improve insulin responses and function. Less insulin helps reduce diabetes in your body that why performing regular exercise is good because it increases insulin sensitivity in your cell. Stay hydrated Water should be your primary beverages. Sugary beverages like soda and punch can increase your risk of type 2 diabetes and latent autoimmune diabetes of adults (LADA). Increased water consumption can lead to better insulin response and blood sugar. Minimise In-Take Of Processed Foods: Large consumption of processed foods can increase your health problems including obesity, heart disease and diabetes. Minimize your intake of processed foods to avoid health problems. Avoid Sedentary Behavior: When you sit or do little physical activities you are living a sedentary lifestyle. Studies show that people, who spend the highest time per day in a sedentary lifestyle, develop the risk of diabetes. Limit the amount of time you sit and always engage in physical activity. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.