Photo/digital-age To bridge digital skills gap in Nigeria, there is need for every citizen to understand the rudiments behind being computer literate, experts have said. Digital experts who gathered at the Digify Africa and Facebook for the Industry Event ‘Accelerating Talents for Industry 4.0’, in Lagos gave insights on how technology is disrupting brand communication while highlighting government‘s role is in closing the digital divide. Regional Philanthropies Marcom Coordinator, Microsoft MEA, Yemi Orimolade, said with the fourth revolution being in place people will need to upscale, learn new skills and relearn to become more relevant with the future of work or jobs in the new industrial revolution. Orimolade said basic computer literacy is the first step in closing the huge digital skills gap in the industry. “We need to go back to the basics and make digital education available across board.” Chief Digital Strategist, Hexal Place, Olamide Egbayelo, noted that the importance of having a Social Media Manager can no longer be underestimated. The system is changing, brands have to adjust. He tasked institutions not to wait for the government to change the curriculum, but for individuals to go out there and learn for themselves. Earlier in her remarks Programme Director at Digify Nigeria, Florence Atunwa Olumodimu, who had interact and nurtured over 5000 youths said what is apparent is that there is a major gap between what the majority are learning at the university and the skills required to flourish in the industry 4.0. “We have been able to deliver digital skills and soft skills that are required for the future of work. We activate Africa`s most valuable natural resources, ‘young people’ — as a solution to one of its most critical challenges: youth unemployment,” she added. Head of Operations at TCY Africa, Ken Ndubusi, emphasised the need for every sector to brace up and not wait on the government to close the digital skills gap but readily embrace every digital skill opportunity and evolve alongside. Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Prima Garnet Africa, Yetunde Adeshina, said if there is a deliberate policy with the government understanding what digital means? There would be a stop to the level of harassment and the mentality of digital being a fraud would certainly be overruled. Head of Marketing, Korapay, Peace Itimi, said there has to be a move on the part of everybody, government especially; in ensuring that every area of the nation is empowered with basic digital skills.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .