 Buhari. Photo: TWITTER/ASOROCK  If we imagine that a small country in Scandinavia exports more agricultural products than the totality of the oil proceeds Nigeria gets at the moment with its land space which less than one state in Nigeria, then we can imagine the economic loss factor that we have today. If Nigeria establishes a code of conduct which criminalizes corruption and abuse of offices with a strict system of enforcement as some nation have, we will surely put an end or reduce drastically the current system of plutocracy and abuse of public and developmental institutions in the country.
 
If Nigeria recognizes a system where developmental strategies are decentralized to the local and state authorities it will certainly enable our energy sector from the sun (solar), wind, water and bio energy to assist and reduce our current dependence on fossil energy. The Head of IMF M/s Christine Lagarde just said that the lack of adequate electricity is costing Nigeria $26bilion for lack of adequate megawatts. In the next decade, Nigeria will become a dumping ground for cars and vehicles based on diesel and petrol engines as other countries are already moving into vehicles with electronic batteries.  That sovereignty belongs to the people of Nigeria from whom government derives ALL its powers and authority.That security and welfare of the people shall be the PRIMARY PURPOSE of government and that accordingly, national integration shall be actively encouraged whilst discrimination on the grounds of place of origin, sex religion, status, ethnic or linguistic association or ties shall be prohibited”.  In an EGALITARIAN SOCIAL ORDER it is our submission that the above objectives MUST BE MADE JUSTICIABLE and punishable for us to move forward. The courts shall be liberated from the present shackles, to administer justice without fear or favour, at all levels of the new spectrum at the states or centre of TRUE FEDERALISM. As an African country, we must realize that knowledge and brain power is available to all of humanity who wishes to possess it and implement it beneficially. It can and shall be done as Nigeria is not an exception in humanity as our own legendary and literary icon Prof.   Chinua Achebe said in his “Things fall apart” because “the centre cannot hold” which is pervasive in virtually all Nigerian native cultures. So be it, it can be done, or let your servants depart in PEACE and not PIECES. “SAVE and EXCEPT the needful is done this nation will continue in this odious circuitous rigmarole. It will remain 2steps forward and 7 backwards, because no nation grows watering the trees of injustice, of inequality and of protocols lacking in equity and fairness. Partisanship notwithstanding, until our structural and foundational contradictions are resolved, Nigeria will continue to beat dead horse” Chris Mustapha Nwaokobia Jnr. Convener Country First Movement.
 
Let it be said again that we Nigerians know what is the right prescriptions for our national ailment but lack the will to implement them just as we are not doing much about the ill effects of current climate change! we all must wake up to our current debilitating challenges!!
Concluded.
Ikokwu (Omenife) is a senior citizen of the NBA and Nigerian veteran.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .