 [FILES] Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE)  Onyema added that state governments and other corporates also raised a total of N157 billion from NSE during the period under review.
 
“We believe this level of activity validates our position as a competitive capital-raising platform for both business and government issuers to finance various economic activities.
   
In the 2019 outlook, he explained that NSE’s future revenues and net income would continue to be influenced by key domestic and international market forces such as pricing, product features and regulatory changes.
   
Onyema said that it would strive to finalise the Exchange demutualusation process, boost the fixed income market segment and establish its exchange-traded derivatives market.
 
“In order to properly serve our customers, we intend to measure our brand awareness and perception, which will inform our communications and engagement initiatives. “We are confident that pursuing these initiatives in 2019 will boost the competitiveness of the NSE at a time when the Nigerian capital market is at an inflection point,” he said.
   
The President, National Council, NSE, Abimbola Ogunbanjo, said the Exchange maintained a focus on transforming and reforming the market to be more efficient during the period under review.
   
According to Ogunbanjo, the NSE will amongst other priorities, consolidate on milestones achieved so far while executing on their 2018-2021 strategy, which is focused on customer centricity, market development, and innovation.
   
“We are currently at the approval stages of our growth board, a new marketplace to address the growing needs of start-ups, provide exit opportunities for investors and reduce the cost of funding.
 
“In line with our desire to increase financial inclusion and unlock dormant capital for economic growth and development, we intend to intensify our promotion of the growth and development of the Islamic finance industry within the Nigerian capital markets.” He pointing out that the NSE will continue to intensify efforts with stakeholders to develop new financial instruments and maximise organisational value.
 
Ogunbanjo noted that throughout the year, the Exchange also focused on transforming and reforming the market to be more efficient.
   
He further said: “We expanded our focus on retail investor activity and in positioning the Exchange to deploy innovation to be agile, offering smart products and services.
   
“In 2018, we witnessed the Debt Management Office (DMO), list the pioneer N10.69 billion Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) Sovereign Green Bond, and a N100 billion FGN ljarah Sukuk Bond. This further asserted our aspiration, as the platform for both the public and private sector to raise and to access capital, encouraging financial inclusion.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .