 Atuenyi  Atueyi noted that the challenges causing the dearth of newspaper are numerous, adding that the health journal has withstood the odds for over 40 years by the assurance of the vision, which was divinely inspired. According to the publisher, when the periodical started 40 years ago, he had the privilege of having some very good friends and associates who supported the vision and offered useful suggestions. Atueyi, who also marked his 80th birthday launched his book titled “My Life and Pharmanews,” which is a two-part autobiography that chronicles the 80-year odyssey of his life and the circumstances that led to the birth and success of the 40-year-old journal. The quartette event held at Sheba Event Centre on Mobolaji Bank-Anthony Way, Ikeja, Lagos.“The story of my life and that of Pharmanews are interwoven. It is difficult to tell one without the other. But one thing is obvious. By divine guidance, the journey of my life and that of Pharmanews have been aided by some individuals, groups, pharmaceutical companies and organisations. Details of all these have been put together in my autobiography,” he said. Atueyi further explained that his interest in pharmaceutical journalism was actually sparked off in 1974 when Prince Julius Adelusi-Adeluyi of Juli Pharmacy persuaded him to serve as the Editor-In-Chief of the Nigerian Journal of Pharmacy, published by the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN). “After serving the PSN faithfully for four years, God led me to start Pharmanews. Juli has played and continue play significant roles in my life and business,” he said. Atueyi further revealed that the scheduled celebrations would also be used to “recognise and appreciate 50 pharmaceutical companies that have supported us during this 40-year period.” Speaking on the activities for the event, the Editor of the online publication, Temitope Obayendo, said there would be presentation of awards of appreciation to deserving pharmaceutical companies, who have carved a notch in the healthcare industry.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .