 Teachers must come up with cutting-edge researches that would provide solutions to societal problems. Photo: PIXABAY  With the socio-economic problems confronting the nation, our tertiary institutions must be able to solve organisational problems, which will invariably rub off on their students. Executive Secretary, Africa Brands review, Mr. Joseph Ayodele who disclosed this at a briefing stressed the need for university teachers to come up with cutting edge research works that would positively affect the society. Ayodele who spoke on plans by the organisation to hold an outstanding professors award and conference with the theme, “Future of education and education of the future,” said the time has come for scholars to come out with innovations for the growth and development of the country. “As a university, your professor must be solving problems for organisations such that when they are recruiting students, they should be able to consider those from your institution.” Speaking on the conference billed for October 31 at the Airport Hotel, Ikeja, Ayodele said it is designed to give heads of schools, principals, educational leaders, administrators, counsellors, teachers and policymakers a robust non-specialist source of international comparative trends shaping education in high schools or universities. He noted that stakeholders would learn how to effectively prepare students for the rigours of university education, techniques to improve outcomes in Nigerian schools, effective parenting as a catalyst, challenges of building institutions designed for students’ successes in tomorrow’s world and effective options for university education. “The overall aim is to encourage schools that are doing well if we can have at least 1000 standardised schools in Nigeria, that would have solved the problem of education in the country. The conference will present opportunities for parents and students eager to make career choices to interact and ask notable Nigerian professors questions. These are professors that have been profiled and qualify as meeting the criteria for 2019 who is who in the annals of Nigerian professors. “They have contributed to the pool of knowledge, published papers in international journals as original research, developed a thesis and hypotheses that were acknowledged as an international breakthrough and have an enviable record in the production of PhD students in their field,” Ayodele added. He noted that that the conference, will provide an opportunity to celebrate some universities that did well in the global universities ranking. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .