 US President Donald Trump speaks to the press from the South Lawn of the White House after announcing and initial deal with China in Washington, DC, prior to departing to Lake Charles, Louisiana to hold a campaign rally on October 11, 2019. – President Donald Trump on Friday hailed a breakthrough in his drawn-out trade war with China, saying the two sides reached an initial deal covering intellectual property, financial services and currencies. (Photo by NICHOLAS KAMM / AFP)  “WOW, the Farmers really hit pay dirt,” Trump tweeted. Friday’s initial agreement, which marks a halt in the 18-month trade war, calls for a huge increase in China’s purchases of US farm products. It also covers intellectual property, financial services, and currencies. Trump said Friday evening the deal calls for China to increase its imports of US farms goods to $40-50 billion a year — more than double the level of 2017. The US will also hold off on a massive tariff increase planned for next week. US President Donald Trump speaks to the press after announcing and initial deal with China   at the South Lawn of the White House in Washington, DC before departing to Lake Charles, Louisiana to hold a campaign rally on October 11, 2019. – President Donald Trump on Friday hailed a breakthrough in his drawn-out trade war with China, saying the two sides reached an initial deal covering intellectual property, financial services and currencies. (Photo by Nicholas Kamm / AFP)  Nor will it roll back tariffs already in place on hundreds of billions of dollars in two-way trade. The two sides have touted progress in their trade talks before, only to see things come apart later. Still, Trump cried victory in a series of tweets on Saturday. “The deal I just made with China is, by far, the greatest and biggest deal ever made for our Great Patriot Farmers in the history of our Country,” Trump tweeted. He said the accord calls for such a big increase in Chinese purchases of US farm goods like soy that there is debate over whether US growers can produce enough. “Our farmers will figure it out. Thank you China,” Trump wrote. He also said that, among other aspects, the accord calls for “16-20 Billion in Boeing Planes.” It was not clear if Trump meant new orders or previously existing ones. Boeing declined to comment when reached by AFP.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .