 Lt.-Gen. Theophilous Yakubu Danjuma (rtd) (left); former Governor of Oyo State, Adebayo Alao-Akala; Osun State Governor Gboyega Oyetola; celebrant, Gen. Alani Akinrinade; his wife, Omowale; Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi; Ogun State Deputy Governor, Noimot Salako-Oyedele and All Progressives Congress (APC) leader, Bisi Akande, during the 80th birthday celebration of Akinrinade in Ibadan… yesterday.   PHOTO: NAJEEM RAHEEM  They spoke yesterday at the International Conference Centre, University of Ibadan (UI), Ibadan, during the 80th birthday celebration of the retired army general. Ogunwusi, who lauded the dedication of Akinrinade to the South-West and the country at large, said: “Alani dedicated his entire life-time to the development of his country, especially his people and the nation. I mean the South-West. “He put his life on the life-line during the regime of the military. He was attacked. His house was firebombed. He had to travel out this country on an exile; he is a dogged fighter of democracy in Nigeria. It is on this note that I will urge the youths of this country to emulate his doggedness and his bravery towards achieving great and better results not only for himself, but also for this nation as a whole. Also, Fayemi described the celebrant is an icon and a key pillar in the struggle for democracy that we are all enjoying in Nigeria today. I think the Nigerian youths should emulate this gesture for the development of themselves and that of the nation at large. Oyetola said: “He deserves to be celebrated with all his struggle for the democracy process in Nigeria. He is not a man of the South-West alone; so the celebration is not limited to us alone as you can see that this gathering is not limited to us the Yorubaland alone. Other dignitaries at the event include Chief Alex Duduyemi, Chief Bisi Akande, the former Governors of Oyo State, Otunba Adebayo Alao-Akala and Senator Abiola Ajimobi, some retired army generals and the Old Students of Oke-Offa Grammar School, Ibadan, among others. Meanwhile, Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State, represented by his deputy, Mr. Agboola Ajayi, described Akinrinade as a selfless leader, whose contribution to the enthronement of democracy in the country would not be forgotten.He said Akinrinade was a member of the pro-democracy advocacy group, NADECO, who fought for the uninterrupted democracy Nigeria had been enjoying since 1999. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .