More often than not, we hear people around us complain about their inability to sleep (insomnia) but what we do not often get to hear about is those who sleep too much. Known as hypersomnolence or hypersomnia, it is a condition that leads to constant daytime fatigue and drowsiness as well as prolonged night time sleeps. As the name implies, what it means is that a patient will usually go through repeated bouts of sleep, which he or she will not be able to resist without proper treatment and intervention. While there is no scientifically or medically proven cause for the onset of this ailment, it is known to affect adolescents more than adults. A woman sleeping | Photo – BlackDoctor It doesn’t matter if the patient had a good night sleep or not, the conditions make them take naps throughout the day. They could have excessive drowsiness at the most inopportune times including meal times and even in the middle of a conversation. Keep reading on to know more about the symptoms and treatment of this condition according to Lybate. Symptoms: There are several symptoms that can point to hypersomnia including anxiety, restlessness and a sense of increased irritation even in the most normal, everyday situations due to a perceived lack of sleep and constant state of drowsiness. Other symptoms include loss of appetite, hallucination, slow thinking and slow speech. Social impact: As expected, a patient of hypersomnia will have a decreased interaction on social platforms and lose basic functionality because of the constant urge to sleep. Not only that, considering that the patient’s coherent thinking and speaking may deteriorate and there is the possibility of the sense of irritability and restlessness displayed while interacting with others. Medication: In most cases, it is best to go about this condition by treating the symptoms with medication prescribed by a doctor. The doctor may prescribe stimulant medication that will help in keeping the system awake for longer periods at a time. The doctor will also stress on the time of the day when these must be ingested so that nighttime sleep is not affected in any way. These medicines include amphetamines, which are usually prescribed for patients suffering from ADHD or attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. This medicine is usually given in controlled doses so as to keep the patient alert for longer periods of time. Other medicines include clonidine, antidepressants, bromocriptine, monoamine oxidase inhibitors and levodopa. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.