Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo. Photo/Twitter/SeyiAMakinde In a bid to reform the state Local Government system, the Oyo State House of Assembly, yesterday, confirmed the appointment of five nominees that will oversee the State Local Government Service Commission. Governor Seyi Makinde had nominated the five candidates and sent the list to the lawmakers for screening and possible confirmation. Acting on the governor’s correspondence, the lawmakers responded to a motion moved by Deputy Speaker, Abiodun Fadeyi and the members representing Ogbomoso North state constituency, Mrs. Wumi Oladeji, to confirm the nominees. The process was as swift as expected, because the movers of the motion had declared that consequent upon the “robust credentials and experience” of the nominees, they should be asked to “bow and go”. Those confirmed and awaiting subsequent inauguration by Governor Makinde include, Mr. Remi Ayodele (Chairman); Mr. Oyesina Oyedeji, Mr. John Abisoye Adisa-Oke, Mr. Oke Taiwo and Mrs. Nike Arewa, as members. In his remarks shortly after the confirmation, Ayodele stressed that the commission would work to turn things around at the local government level and ensure that constituents enjoy the dividends of democracy. While stating his determination to provide an efficient, transparent and diligence supervision of activities of the workforce of the local government, Ayodele added: “Some of us appointed as chairman and commissioners are veterans of the local government system for decades. “We are familiar with the dynamics of the local government administration and we assure that in line with Governor Seyi Makinde’s desire to turn things around for the good of the people of Oyo state, we will turn things around at the third tier of government. “We are going to see to operations at the third tier of government, ensure that things work very well and that the people enjoy the dividends of democracy at that level of government. We will ensure that the workforce do their work diligently and transparently and key into the action agenda of our action governor in Oyo state”. Meanwhile the African Democratic Congress (ADC) in the state has dissociated itself from a splinter group from the party that sought to down play the giant strides of the governor. In a communique released by the party at the end of an all inclusive stakeholders meeting at Emmanuel Alayande Teachers’ House Samonda, praised Governor Makinde “for implementing populist policies and programmes that has changed the face of governance in the state.” The chieftains were led to the meeting by the former Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Chief Michael Koleoso, Senator Monsurat Sunmonu, the acting state party chairman, Reverend Adeniran, former deputy speaker, Rt Honourable Musah Abdulwasi, many state, local and ward executive members as well as prominent party stalwarts drawn from the five major blocs of the party. The communique said: “The party restates its unflinching support to the governance style of the Government of unity led by Engineer Oluwaseyi Abiodun Makinde as being widely adjudged by the populace as truly progressive. “It commends and appreciates Governor Makinde’s efforts in his populist policies and programmes which include: prompt payment of salaries, abolition of fees in public schools, distribution of free exercise and textbooks, review of disengagement in the civil service, employments generation through Public Private Partnership (PPP), health reforms, security rejuvenation and many more. “It assures Governor Makinde’s administration of its unalloyed support towards righting the many wrongs that characterised the immediate past administration in the state and committed to the government of unity even as remind the Governor to duly respect the mutual and gentleman coalition agreement with the coalition parties in all the strata of his administration.” The ADC therefore dissociated itself from mischievous moves especially a misleading press release credited to some fifth columnists in the name of the party seeking attentions in the polity.” However, in an interview with journalists, Senator Sunmonu said the party was meeting for the first time since the last election, noting that it was imperative that as a party, the meeting was needed to notch up on some issues. She said: “We have not been able to meet since the last election and we thought it necessary to meet, so that we will unite and more so, for the fact that we are in a coalition group, these are the things that we can all decide collectively on the way forward, that was why we are here. She explained that the coalition has met with the governor, pointing out, “we can say that the governor is a man of his words and that he is still abiding by the coalition agreement.” “We also believe that it would be good to relate the outcome of our meetings with him, the entire stakeholders and party members.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .