 Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu  The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Magu stated this during his visit to the commission’s zonal office in Makurdi, Benue State, saying that some of the governors were now keeping a low profile. He said the development was due to the fact that whenever the governors contravened the law, EFCC would come after them, as they were always on the commission’s radar, within and outside the country. “EFCC is all eyes and ears; wherever and whenever they organise such ostentatious parties, they will be fished out and prosecuted, be it within or outside the country,” he said. He stressed that the commission would not relent in its efforts at curbing their excesses, stressing that necessary strategies have been put in place to yield results in the fight against corruption. According to Magu, although corruption is deep-rooted in the country, the Federal Government’s anti-corruption war is yielding positive results. He stressed that the task of fighting corruption was very complex and sophisticated, as organised criminal gangs were daily devising new high-tech means of perpetrating fraud and other criminal activities. Meanwhile, to enhance service delivery, Action Aid Nigeria has warned Nigerians against outsourcing the fight against corruption to anti-graft agencies. The group stated that Nigerians should begin to demand accountability on how public resources were managed by public service officers rather than leave the fight against corruption to EFCC or ICPC alone. Action Aid Country Director, Ene Obi, who spoke during the Development Forum organised at the University of Abuja, stressed the need for a robust anti-corruption strategy that allows citizens to take ownership of anti-graft fight and the need for a strong national holistic campaign against corruption. She also urged the government to encourage research development on the anti-corruption model suitable for Nigeria, stressing the need to ensure that sanctions were meted out to offenders and justice was done. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .