An Ikeja Magistrates’ Court yesterday ordered the remand of a 28-year-old man in prison over alleged rape of a 14-year-old girl. The Chief Magistrate, Mr P.E. Nwaka, ordered that the defendant be remanded in Kirikiri Prisons, Lagos, pending advice from the Lagos Director of Public Prosecutions. The defendant, whose house address was not provided, was arraigned on a two-count charge of alleged rape and impersonation. The Prosecutor, Insp. Christopher John, said that the defendant committed the offences on Oct. 1 at his residence. John further told the court that at about 11 p.m. on the same date, the defendant sexually assaulted the 14-year-old-girl. He added that “the defendant also claimed to be a member of the Anti-kidnapping personnel of the Nigerian Police Force, a presentation he knew was false.” The prosecutor said that the offence contravened the provisions of sections 260 and 77 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. The chief magistrate adjourned the case until Nov. 18 for mention. Meanwhile, an Ikeja Chief Magistrates’ Court has ordered that a 19-year-old boy, Lukumon Yusuf, who allegedly stabbed a man in the head during a robbery operation, be remanded in a correctional facility, pending legal advice. The police charged Yusuf, a bus conductor, who resides at 5, Ajayi Road in Idimu area of Lagos State with conspiracy, robbery, and assault. Earlier, the Prosecutor, Mr. Raji Akeem told the court that Yusuf allegedly committed the offence about 2:15a.m  on July 7 at 4, Fagbohun Street in Egbeda, Lagos. Akeem alleged that Yusuf and three others now at large, while armed with guns, cutlasses and a jackknife, broke into the residence of the complainant, Mr. Stanley Okpara. He alleged that Yusuf stole mobile phones valued at N525,000, an HP laptop valued at N55,000 and N220,000 cash from the complainant and his brothers. Akeem said they stabbed Mr. Chukwunji Anthony, the complainant’s brothers in the head with a jackknife. The prosecutor said the offence contravened the provisions of sections 297, 298 and 411 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. The Chief Magistrate, Mrs. O.A. Layinka, who did not take the plea of Yusuf, ordered that he be remanded pending the legal advice from the office of the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) The Chief Magistrate adjourned the case until Nov. 20 for mention. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .