 Slizeboy  The concert, which will hold in campuses and cities across the country beginning with Makurdi his hometown next weekend, the artiste said will unleash the best of entertainment. In a chat with The Guardian, Egbunu said Ability In The City is a thank you gig to fans. “It is going to be massive, featuring big names from all over Nigeria. It is going to be a night of music, comedy, and fun. “It would parade acts like Erigga, Jaywon, Crystawonda, Razily, Chuddyk, Od Woods, Jumabee, Rapizo, Chygoz, Nobvee, Slikish and many more. Nollywood Stars like Baba Rex, Shaggy Bes and Patience Yisa as well as DJ Ken and DJ Eli. The masters of ceremony are Mc Makopolo, Mc Smart, Pastor Nicodemus, Dy Gingerbreed and Freshbliss,” he said. He added, “The concert is a thank you from me to my loyal Benue State fans where the story all started from. Though it is the maiden edition, I promise everyone that it would be the biggest concert the city has ever seen. My fans should expect a mind-blowing event, something different from the ones they’ve experienced in the past.” Slizeboy, who started his music career in Makurdi, Benue State, explained that his passion and love for music was influenced by the legendary 2Face Idibia and Westlife. He also explained that his goal is to tour the world with his music, starting from the middle-belt, then round the country before going international. “With all hands on deck and by God’s grace, it is already a success. I would also be dropping an EP a few days to the concert.” According to the artiste, he started writing songs right from when he was eight years old and started singing in early 2000. He added that he love music but didn’t believe in his talent, hence he started with miming other artistes’ songs, performing at school parties and the likes. “Eventually, I worked up the courage to record my own song and the first time I entered the studio, I was so nervous but managed to record a track. The love shown to me when I dropped the song encouraged me to do more and from there, got signed to Slize Entertainment two years ago,” he stated. Describing God as his number one influence Egbunu, further stated that his genre of music is Afropop, stressing that his uniqueness when it comes to sound sets him apart from other artistes. He is leaving no stone unturned in actualising his dream collaboration with Davido or Wizkid. He stated that he is not in music for the fame or money, but wants to leave a legacy for fans and “this is why I try to always feed them with good music because I want to be remembered for generations to come. “By the special grace of God, I see myself on top of the game, my vision is to tour around the world and remain relevant and I strongly believe that Ability In The City is a stepping stone,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .