 (FILES) In this file photo taken on May 19, 2017 Wikileaks founder Julian Assange raises his fist prior to addressing the media on the balcony of the Embassy of Ecuador in London. – WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange on June 14, 2019, faces his first British court hearing since the US submitted a formal extradition request on espionage charges that have upset defenders of press freedoms and human rights. (Photo by Justin TALLIS / AFP)  The 48-year-old Australian has been in custody at the high-security Belmarsh prison in southwest London since being dramatically dragged from Ecuador’s embassy in April. He could be sentenced to spend up to 175 years in a US prison if convicted on all charges filed under the US Espionage Act. London’s Westminster Magistrates’ Court judge Tan Ikram ordered Assange to appear in person for a case management hearing on October 21. The final extradition hearing has been scheduled for February 28 next year. Assange used WikiLeaks to publish classified military and diplomatic files in 2010 about US bombing campaigns in Afghanistan and Iraq that proved highly embarrassing to the US government. He has been making periodic appearances by video-link at administrative hearings as he tries to prove that he is no longer a flight risk and can be set free on bail due to poor health. Assange looked gaunt and moved with caution as he walked into a prison holding cell and slowly seated himself to face the camera at Friday’s hearing, an AFP reporter in court said. He gave his name and age in a halting and slightly croaky voice while swaying back and forth with his shoulders slumped. Assange began pulling on the sleeves of his lilac jumper over crossed legs while listening to the judge spend a few minutes going through the case. Defence attorney Gareth Peirce said she had no objections because the hearing “would only be an hour-long”. Assange’s legal team has never explicitly said what condition Assange is suffering from. His current stay in prison stems from his decision to violate his bail terms and seek asylum in the Ecuadorian embassy in London in 2012. He had then been fighting extradition to Sweden to face unrelated rape allegations. Assange and his international supporters view all cases against him as political and his treatment as inhumane. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .