Delta State Governor, H.E Sen. Dr. Ifeanyi Arthur Okowa. Photo/Twitter/GovIfeanyiOkowa The Governor Ifeanyi Okowa administration has committed itself to the continued partnerships with vigilance groups and security agencies for better protection of lives and properties in the state. The Commissioner for Information, Charles Aniagwu, made the pledge at Onicha-Ugbo while addressing newsmen on the sidelines of the Delta State Strategic Executive Retreat 2019, adding that the synergy that existed between the bodies was yielding positive results for the people. He commended the boldness displayed by a vigilance group in Issele-Azagba, which foiled a kidnap attempt at a secondary school in the community on Monday. He said: “The state government will continue to encourage partnerships and collaborations between vigilance groups and security agencies for effective policing. Let me tell you that Governor Ifeanyi Okowa is very impressed with the gallantry put up by the local vigilance group at Issele-Azagba. “People will say why don’t government put security in the schools, but you will also agree that kidnapping can take place anywhere even at homes, and so we are interested in the overall security of every part of the state and I must tell you that our collaboration with the local vigilance groups in the state is a step in the right direction.” He further stressed: “We hope to continue to strengthen them because what has happened has shown that the collaboration with vigilance groups and other security outfits is a good decision and we will stay on course with that right decision as it is yielding desired results. “We will continue to empower them to make them more capable with a view to ensuring they play a more important role in our quest to ensure a more secure and peaceful state.” On the lessons to be learnt from the retreat, the commissioner said that the event was for ministries and agencies to collaborate to ensure the realisation of the ‘Stronger Delta Agenda’ of the Okowa-led administration. The commissioner went on: “I can confidently tell you that we have learnt a lot already today (yesterday) and it is imperative because there is need to drive home the strategies for achieving the Stronger Delta mantra. Yes, we have boarded different vehicles but indeed we have been able to understand that the vehicles are headed to one direction and so irrespective of the ministry that you are saddled with, the responsibility of overseeing the goal is for a Stronger Delta.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .