 Gov. Rochas Okorocha of Imo State. Photo/OwelleRochas/  Of late, the ruling party has been reeling from internal dissension over the outcome of the 2019 general election, as well as the true standing of its structure in the states.
   
Although the Deputy National Chairman (North), Senator Lawal Shuaibu, accused Oshiomhole of highhandedness and excluding other members of the National Working Committee (NWC) in the day-to-day running of the party, the demands from the state chapters came as a big twist, both in the nature and resolve of the signatories. Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige. Photo/Twitter/LabourMinNG  Grief, Gamble In South East
WHILE the furore raised by the 36 chapter chairmen was yet to settle, their signed petition to the national leadership of the party became the bone of contention in Enugu State APC. Not long after the chairmen issued their 10-day ultimatum, the Enugu State chapter of the party disowned Dr. Ben Nwoye.
  
Chairman of the party, Deacon Okey Ogbodo, told journalists that the Enugu State chapter “is baffled by the shameful public conduct of former chairman of APC in Enugu State, Ben Nwoye.”
   
Ogbodo regretted that despite the unchallenged declarative order by the Federal High Court, which ruled that ab initio, the former chairman was not qualified to stand as a candidate in May 19, 2018, APC state congress in the state, “Nwoye continues to parade himself as chairman of our party.”
 
While stressing that he won in the congress, Ogbodo said he has petitioned the Enugu State Police Command and the party’s national headquarters to enforce the law and take necessary actions against the “pretender.”
  
On the issue of a pending case in the Court of Appeal, Ogbodo said: “The only appeal arising from that judgment pending at the Appeal Court as of today, is one in which I am seeking a judicial declaration that since Nwoye was found unqualified to contest as a candidate at that congress, I remain, therefore, the automatic winner, there is no other contestant on record, on the day.
  
“But it is worrisome how Nwoye, being fully aware of the judgment, the pendency of the appeal, and grounds thereof, has continued to act provocatively in a manner capable of breaching the peace, junketing around. He goes around parading himself and purporting to speak for Enugu State APC. This is dangerous and outrageous”  However, sources disclosed that the APC leadership is taking its time over the incomplete membership of the NWC for reasons not unconnected to averting a major implosion, but also for the 2023 presidential calculations. Party stalwarts, especially those from the South said although they are convinced that a strategy to reshuffle the NWC was afoot, “it would not be done immediately so as not to detonate a time bomb.” Yet, as the issue of filling the position of the secretary still roils
the party in the North-East geo-political zone, indicators emerged that APC has evinced a political stratagem that would foist South East as a counterforce to the party’s control by a famed national leader towards the 2023 election cycle. A reliable source in the North East zonal caucus of the party confided in The Guardian that although nobody is mentioning Shuaibu’s damning letter against Oshiomhole, the mood of leaders in the North is that until the party is wrested from the southern cabal, the internal protestations could consume it. He said that despite APC’s poor returns in the 2019 polls from South East, the geopolitical zone seems to be a fertile ground for the party’s 2023 calculations, but regretted that attempt by the party to use a female politician from Anambra State as a rallying point failed.  FOR instance, in Ebonyi, the Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, Senator Julius Ucha and Governor Dave Umahi, are allegedly engaged in a proxy battle for the control of the state’s structure. The infighting affected the governorship primary, which threw up Senator Sonni Ogbuoji in circumstances, which some consider controversial.
  
Some party stalwarts in the state believe that Umahi pulled
behind the scene strings (through Onu and Ucha), which saw to the emergence of Ogbuoji, who most party faithful believe was not prepared for the contest.
 
Knowing that the zoning arrangement would work against his election, Ogbuoji, who hails from Afikpo South in Ebonyi South Senatorial District, was said to have joined the governorship race ostensibly to position himself for eventual appointment into the federal cabinet.
 
Meanwhile, Ucha was accused of supporting Ogbuoji’s emergence at the expense of his kinsman, a former Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Prof. Ben Odoh, in order to leave the governorship position open when the zoning would be in favour of Ebonyi Central.  But unlike Ebonyi that parades persons with presidential ambition, Enugu has none within the APC fold. But sources indicated that those pushing for the governor’s senatorial ambition want to create an enabling environment to ensure that he becomes the candidate of APC and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in 2023.
  
A PDP chieftain from Enugu North Senatorial District (where the governor hails from), told The Guardian that it was based on the fact that the Nsukka cultural zone had resolved to gift Governor Ugwuanyi the senatorial seat that the current occupant, Senator Chuka Utazi, decided to align with the former Deputy President of Senate, Ike Ekweremadu. It was Utazi that nominated the Ekweremadu for his ill-fated second attempt at clinching the position of Deputy Senate President.
   
The source explained that former Governor Okwezilieze Nwodo was denied the senate seat in keeping with the unwritten arrangement in the state that no federal lawmaker should exceed two terms at either the Green or Red chambers to avert a repeat of the Ekweremadu saga, and to pave the way for the seat to move to Nsukka North in 2023.
 
The setting in Anambra defines deep intrigues and conspiracies.
Although the current Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige, has ruled out interest in the 2021 governorship election, those close to him said the same could not be said about interest in serving as a prospective presidential running mate.  MOST party chieftains blame Owelle Rochas Okorocha for the loss of Imo State in the 2019 polls. Apart from the fact that Okorocha still nurses his presidential ambition, his refusal to step down for President Buhari in 2014, and insistence on fielding his son-in-law, as APC’s gubernatorial candidate in 2019 is being reckoned against him. Senator Ben Uwajimogu, who is now the highest-ranking political figure in Imo State, told The Guardian that Okorocha worked against all those who helped him to win a second term and thereby rendered the party dissolute by his high handedness.  When therefore, APC stalwarts talk of using the South East as the party’s joker in 2023, it could as well be that they are referring either to the joke, which the party has become in the geo-political zone, or their preparedness to reap from the political short-sightedness, confusion and transactional politics that abound in the area. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .