Prince Harry has always been open about his struggle with living in the spotlight and it seems that it has gotten so much to him that he is considering leaving the UK for good. The royal and his wife, Duchess of Sussex, Meghan Markle opened up during an emotional interview with broadcaster Tom Bradby for a new documentary titled Harry & Meghan: An African Journey, which aired on ITV on Sunday, October 20. Harry & Meghan: An African Journey will offer an insight into the emotional journey the ‘vulnerable and bruised’ royal couple have been catapulted into since their wedding while following their ten-day tour of southern Africa. In a new clip from the hour-long documentary, Prince Harry talks about wanting to move to Africa. When asked, “Is this [Africa] part of your future do you think, do you intend to spend more time here, even live here perhaps for a while?” Prince Harry replies: “I don’t know where we could live in Africa at the moment. We’ve just come from Cape Town, that would be an amazing place for us to be able to base ourselves, of course it would…But with all the problems that are going on there I just don’t see how we would be able to make as much difference as we want to without the issues and the judgment of how we would be with those surroundings.” Prince Harry made it clear that the continent will still be his and Meghan’s main priority even if they can’t make the transition to Africa. He revealed Africa will be the main focus of his and Meghan’s work in the future. He added: ‘The rest of our lives, especially our life’s work will be predominantly focused on Africa, on conservation. There are 19 commonwealth countries across this continent, there’s a lot of things to be done, there’s a lot of problems here but there’s also huge potential for solutions.” Prince Harry and Meghan Markle | Photo – Her On her part, Markle has said that she is ‘existing, not living’ while struggling with the pressures of royal life and media scrutiny. In an article for the Sunday Times, Mr Bradby recalled asking her whether she was able to cope with the endless media scrutiny the newlywed has been under. She said: ‘We are taking it one day at a time,’ before admitting that the couple are currently ‘existing, not living.’ When Markle was asked about the impact the intense public scrutiny has had on her ‘physical and mental health’ and how Harry is being ‘protective’ of her after what happened to his mother, she replied: “Look, any woman especially when they are pregnant you’re really vulnerable and so that was made really challenging, and then when you have a new born – you know… And especially as a woman, it’s a lot. So you add this on top of just trying to be a new mom or trying to be a newlywed it’s, well…’ She adds: “Also thank you for asking, because not many people have asked if I’m OK. But it’s a very real thing to be going through behind the scenes.” Probing further, Bradby asks her: “And the answer is, would it be fair to say, not really OK, as in it’s really been a struggle?” A visibly upset  Markle responds,  ‘Yes.’ Many Twitter users have since sent their love to the former “Suits” actress after  a clip from the documentary was released on Friday in which she admitted she was ‘not really OK’. Prince Harry and Markle who have a son together, Archie are set to take six weeks off from their royal duties over the Christmas period. 