 Akwa Ibom. Photo; NDLINK  It was gathered that the incident happened at about 8:00 a.m. when a Mack Truck with a Rivers State registration number, BNY 137XA, skidded off the road while trying to avoid a Keke driver who was crossing the road. An eyewitness told The Guardian that in the confusion that followed, the truck driver, who was on his way to Calabar, Cross River State, rammed into SG Filling Station, destroying three Keke and other vehicles beyond repair. The source, who pleaded anonymity, said that the three persons who were standing on its way were crushed to death while three others who sustained serious injuries, had been taken to an undisclosed hospital for treatment. However, a Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) official, who claimed anonymity, put the causality figure at two, including a man and woman and two injured. “I was just standing directly opposite the SG Filling Station when the truck came from Itam market probably on its way to Calabar. There was a Keke driver trying to cross the road. So, while trying to avoid the Keke, the truck swerved and ran into the filling station. The three people who were standing there and three Keke vehicles were damaged beyond repair,” he said. The Sector Commander the FRSC in Akwa Ibom State, Mr. Sunday Oghenekaro, who confirmed the incident, blamed the crash on the recklessness of the Keke rider, saying: “From the information, I have received from my field officer, two
People, including a man and a woman, died and two were injured. The incident happened due to the recklessness of the Keke rider who was trying to cross the road. The truck was trying to avoid him before it finally crashed. “This is the issue we have been emphasising to them that there is a need for them to be enlightened and licensed before getting into the road. But because of the love for money, some of them jumped into the road and the result is what we are seeing today.” On whether his office has organised an orientation for them, the Sector Commander said: “They have not been availing themselves of the opportunity.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .