The Coordinator, National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) in Sokoto State, Mr Philip Enaberue, says two corps members are to repeat their service year. Enaberue, who made this disclosure in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Sokoto, said the affected persons were among the 1,18 corps members who passed out under 2018 Batch C Stream l. He said that the corps members passed out on Oct. 3, in a low keyed event and were issued certificates of service. He disclosed that one other corps member had his service period extended by three months for absenteeism. Enaberue added that those to repeat their service year were found guilty of absconding from their places of primary assignment. According to him, three corps members have been shortlisted for honours, adding He noted that the state has recorded first inter-marriage among corps members that served in the state The Coordinator explained that married corps members were Bello Abfulatif-Tobi and Fatima Hakeem emphasizing that the couple heeded to the NYSC Director General’s encouragement on inter-marriage. He said they were indigenes of Osun and Oyo states respectively. The Coordinator said the marriage was contracted while the couple was serving at Government Secondary School Tangaza. According to him, the marriage was also blessed with a boy named Abdulkhalid. and urged incoming corps members to emulate them. He said 20 among the passed out corps members would undergo certificates verification at NYSC Headquarters in Abuja in line with maximum screening exercise. He lauded the outgoing corps members for their contributions to the development of the state, especially in education, health, agriculture, rural infrastructure and involvement in the concluded general elections. The coordinator advised the corps members to continue to practise the skills acquired during the Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development Training organised for them during the service year. Enaberue called on well-to-do persons and organizations in the state to assist serving corps members in the execution of community development projects. He explained that corps members were not allowed to use their personal money for the execution of any community development projects. The coordinator expressed regret that many of them had designed projects and programmes but were not able to execute them due to lack of funds. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .