Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun yesterday met with stakeholders from the Ogun East Senatorial District to seek their inputs in the 2020 Appropriation Bill of the state. The meeting, which was organised by the state government in preparation for the 2020 budget, was attended by traditional rulers, religious leaders, students, market women, traders, artisans, youths and community leaders, among others. Top on the list of the people’s demands is the rehabilitation of roads, schools, provision of adequate security and healthcare facilities, among others. The  Awujale and Paramount Ruler of Ijebuland, Oba Sikiru Adetona, urged the governor to include roads’ construction in the 2020 budget. Adetona, who was represented by the Dagburewe of Idowa, Oba Y.O. Adekoya, advised the governor to consider two major principles of cost analysis and management objectives before embarking on any project, saying that such a project must serve the need of the people. Also, Otunba Bisi Rodipe urged the governor to improve the security architecture of the district, disclosing that kidnappers are taking advantage of the region’s closeness to neighbouring states through the waterways to invade the state and perpetrate criminal activities. Abiodun, earlier in his address, said his administration would incorporate the inputs of the people into the budget. The governor said he made the best use of the 2019 budget prepared by the administration of his predecessor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, “to deliver on our campaign promises across our dear state” although “the budget was obviously not designed with the Building Our Future Together Agenda of our Administration.” He said: “I assure this (stakeholders’ meeting) is not just a talk-shop as we will take copious notes of all your comments, recommendations, proposals, and even critique during the interactive session that will follow. Your views and inputs will be incorporated into the 2020 budget estimates and will subsequently manifest in desired outcomes in each of the three senatorial districts. “We strongly believe that governance should be a participatory process and an inclusive one. Achieving the Ogun State of our dreams will require the inputs of all; it is our belief that the people should have a say on issues that concern them and they should, therefore, be allowed to take their rightful place in the governance process. This is the main reason for the hosting of this town hall meeting.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .