 [FILES] President Muhammadu Buhari  The pair made the call during a live programme to herald Nigeria’s 59th nationhood yesterday in Lagos.
 
Yakasai said: “Unfortunately, I wished that (ex-) President Jonathan who instituted that conference had cause to produce a white paper for the implementation of the recommendations of that conference. I know time was against him, he didn’t do it. I recently talked to the media about the need for the current government to consider the recommendations and see which one they are going to implement, by way of administrative or which to execute by way of organising. I support the implementation. “But I did for a moment understand that the recommendation of the conference urged the restructuring of the nation, which   I support.” He continued: I will remind my good friend (E.K Clark) that the former Secretary-General of the Commonwealth, Chief Emeka Anyaoku went back to the 1963 constitution, which I personally support. But the 1963 constitution has no six regions, but if we are to go there, we must follow the procedure for amending the constitution to effect the needful changes. “I am 100 per cent for it, just that I am speaking as a citizen of Nigeria, and do not represent any northerner.
 
Some of the delegates from the north met, but they were not mandated by the region to speak on their behalf, they only spoke as delegates. So, I think it is wrong to say that the majority of the north is against restructuring.” Also speaking, Clark noted: “I am very happy to hear that my very good friend, (Alhaji Yakassai), now believes in the restructuring of this country. I think we are not moving. Nigeria is not developing because we are operating a (dysfunctional) constitution which does not reflect anything federal. We need a constitution where the states truly have a say.” “He went on: Imagine that before independence, the premiers were able to develop their regions at their pace prior to the 1966 military putsch. “But today, we have a president who has only one constituency. I think many Nigerians do not believe that their leader is operating in their interest. Appointments are allegedly improperly handled. By implementing the confab report, we will have true federalism, as the states would strive to outwit selves in terms f development.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .