A mother of four, Mrs. Kehinde Olakitan, has allegedly died at the Mojisola Maternity Clinic located in Onipanu area of Ogun State while trying to get an abortion from a quack doctor. The husband discovered her body, which was dropped in front of a building adjacent to his, shortly after he was called on phone by a nurse identified as Dupe Odebunmi that his wife was ill and admitted at the clinic. The husband, it was learnt told the police that after hurrying to the clinic he found nobody there but was shocked to find the body of his wife dumped close to their home. The alleged quack doctor and proprietor of the clinic, Salahudeen Jamiu, aged 56, who carried out the unsafe abortion that led to the death of the woman, has been apprehended by the police. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Abimbola Oyeyemi, who confirmed this in a statement yesterday, said the suspect has been arrested while the body of the woman has also been kept at the morgue of the state hospital, Ota. “The suspect was arrested following a report by the husband of the deceased who reported at Onipanu division. The Divisional Police Officer of Onipanu division, Superintendent of Police (SP) Magdalene Adeniji, detailed detectives to launch a serious manhunt for the operator of the maternity centre. Their efforts yielded positive result when the suspect was arrested on October 24. “When interrogated the suspect admitted carrying out an abortion on the deceased who was brought to him by her friend named Dupe Odebunmi, and that the deceased, a mother of four died in the process. He confessed further that it was out of fear that made him dumped her body in the frontage of a house close to the woman’s residence. The body has been deposited at the general hospital Ota mortuary for autopsy.” According to Abimbola, the Commissioner of Police, Bashir Makama, has directed that the suspect should be transferred to homicide section of the state criminal investigation and intelligence department for proper investigation and prosecution.He appealed to the public to always patronize qualified health providers whenever the need arises instead of seeking medical assistance from quack and unqualified practitioners.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .