 Bala Mohammed  Bala in a press statement he signed personally, said, “We cannot over-emphasise the importance of remaining committed to our plans. And for our plans to stand the test of time, we must embrace the currents of time and global best practices. We must diversify; we must embrace the digital age in all ramifications.” He said that the discovery of hydrocarbon in Kolmani River Well II, in the Alkaleri was a giant stride in unlocking the well documented economic potentialities of the State, adding, “As our people jubilate and our administration contemplates the promise of this salutary hydrocarbon found, we are under no illusion at all, that there is still a long road from the economic recovery that we envision for our people. “We must, therefore, constantly remind ourselves that, as history has shown and our experience as a nation demonstrated, oil is a great catalyst and instrument of development but alone, it can never move a nation forward. We will seize the moment; but we will never take our eyes off the ball. “For now, we remain focused on our robust economic recovery plan, which revolves around rapid rehabilitation of infrastructure, establishment of an investor friendly environment, vigorous promotion of agriculture and agro-allied industries through the public private partnership template, growing our IGR and sustained improvement in the supply of skilled manpower based on our vocational education project and partnerships.” He assured the management of the NNPC that his government and people of the State would collaborate with the Corporation and all agencies involved in the noble enterprise. “I consider it a blessing and a privilege that this epochal development is taking place during my tenure as Governor. I do not take it lightly in the least. It is axiomatic that, to whom much is given, much is also expected. “Therefore, I give you my word today, that I will personally put all necessary supportive mechanisms in place, to fast track the process of exploration and drilling.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .