An egg a day could help to keep the doctor away. Eggs remain one of the best and cheapest sources of protein. Eggs also contain antioxidants, calcium, vitamins, and amino acids which are all beneficial to the body. Keep reading for some other amazing benefits of eggs according to Buzz Noble. Eggs Can Carry Salmonella Food Safety Concept Concept with Brown Egg and Yellow Note. Boosts the immune system The immune system benefits greatly from the consumption of eggs as they boost the immune system and help fight diseases, viruses, and infections. Eggs also help regulate the thyroxin as it contains ¼ of the recommended daily consumption of selenium. Good Cholesterol (HDL) An egg contains about 212 mg of cholesterol, which falls into the HDL category. That is the good cholesterol type which helps regulate the bad cholesterol, which is LDL. The usual cliché understanding is that eggs are BAD for people suffering from cholesterol. But the thing is, eggs contain HDL, which helps reduce and control the LDL. Therefore eggs are a good supplement to your breakfast but definitely in moderation. Heart health Scientists have found with further research, that there are different types of LDL cholesterol that can be bad. These are related to the size of the particles within LDL cholesterol. The bigger the particle, the lesser threat for cardiovascular problems. The best part is that LDL in eggs turns from smaller to bigger particles. Eggs not only have HDL but also amend the LDL in your body to make it more useful and reduce the risk of heart disease. Energy Booster An egg encompasses 15% recommended daily intake of riboflavin combined with B2 vitamin, which helps to provide the energy needed for the day. Healthier looking hair and skin The hair and skin benefits from vitamins B5, B12 and B2 found in egg. B complex vitamins help nourish the skin, hair, eyes, and liver. The protein that is available in eggs help keeps the hair supple and strong. Biotin (a type of Vit B) keeps the scalp healthy promoting hair growth. Eggs help increase blood levels of lutein and zeaxanthin gives you younger-looking and supple skin while keeping the cholesterol levels in check. Protection for the Brain
Consuming eggs for breakfast will help you be more focused and feeling sharper throughout the day. Choline, an essential nutrient, which is a neurotransmitter, is available in eggs. Helps in communication skills and maintaining a good memory. Amino Acids Balance 9 essential amino acids can be found in eggs. The acids namely: histidine, isoleucine, leucine, lycine, methionine, phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan and valine. Eggs are also rich in 3 non-essential amino acids, which are – alanine, aspartic acid, and glutamic acid. Mental Health The 9 amino acids found in eggs can help to boost mental health. Amino acid deficiencies are associated with depression, stress and anxiety problems. Hence not only eggs help with physical health but also mental health. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment. 