Drinking hot water regularly can help support your skin, muscles and joint to help improve your health. Water helps the body cell absorbs nutrients and fights infections. Drinking glasses of hot water every day may have great benefits in the body. Below are some helpful benefits of drinking hot water according to Healthline. Bottles of Water. | Photo The Outline HEALTHIER DIGESTION Drinking hot water helps to break down the food faster than drinking cold water. It reduces constipation by supporting the digestive system. When a person does not drink hot water enough, the small intestine absorbs most of the water consumed through food and drinking; this can cause dehydration and can make it more difficult to have a bowel movement. IT IMPROVED CIRCULATION Hot water is a vasodilator which means it expands the blood vessels, it improved circulation this can reduce pain in the muscles. Drinking hot water can also prepare you for a restful sleep which helps you relax well. LIMITS AND RISKS Drinking hot water has many benefits, but it’s not a magical cure-all and drinking water that’s too hot can also damage the tissues in your oesophagus, burn your taste buds. Most times you have to pay attention to the temperature of the water before drinking the hotness of the water should be average. You should drink hot water when you are working in a hot climate and exercising. Research has shown that drinking hot water makes you less thirsty. DECREASE STRESS LEVEL Since hot water helps improve our nervous system function. It is therefore advised to drink hot water every morning and night before going to bed and after waking up. HELPS WITH WEIGHT LOSS You may be trying to lose weight and have heard that drinking hot water regularly helps you?  Yes, that’s correct drinking hot water increases your body temperature, which in turn increases your metabolic rate. An increase in the metabolic activity gives the body the ability to burn more calories throughout the day which helps in weight loss. HELPS REDUCES CONSTIPATION Many of us have experienced the uncomfortable and irritations and effect of this constipation. This common stomach pain occurs when one has little or no bowel movement in the stomach. Drinking of hot water has helped reduce this pain of constipation. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.