Residents of Ilorin, the Kwara capital, have called on the state government to urgently remove buildings and other obstructions along waterways to avert disaster in the state. Some residents, who spoke with newsmen on Monday at the flooded Unity Bridge on AbdulWahab Folawiyo road, expressed concern over the perennial flooding in the areas bordering Asa River. They blamed the development of the erection of buildings and shops along waterways and other encroachments on the setbacks, thereby blocking the free flow of water. A trader, Mr Micheal Alfred, urged the government to direct owners of the offending buildings to vacate immediately in order to save lives and property. Alfred said flooding had hampered business activities in the area and deserved to be given the needed attention. “The water always disturb us here whenever it rains. We want the state government to do something urgent about it. “For those that built on waterways, the government should ask them to quit. They should vacate the buildings,’’ he said. Another resident of the area, David Ayotunde, also appealed to the government to find a lasting solution to perennial flooding along the Asa River at Unity Bridge and other parts of the state. “We want the government to help us here. The government should remove the buildings on waterways to guarantee the free flow of water,’’ he urged. A shop owner, Mr Adeniyi Fabunmi, called for the dredging of Asa River to ensure the free flow of water, attributing flooding in some parts of the state to the buildings on the waterways. The State Deputy Governor, Mr Kayode Alabi, who was on an assessment visit to the area, directed the Town Planning and Development Authority to reassess the area and recommend appropriate measures to tackle the flooding. “We need to do something to guarantee the free flow of water. So, we have called on the Town Planning Development Authority to advise us on how to go about it. “We must also ensure that the Asa River is dredged to ensure the free flow of water,’’ he said. Alabi, who promised that the state government would take decisive actions to safeguard the lives and property of the citizens, urged the public to desist from indiscriminate dumping of refuse, particularly on the river. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Forestry, Isiaka Al-Amin, said the government would take proactive measures to avert disaster in the state. He urged residents not to throw dirt in the drainage or build on waterways, saying that building on waterways could lead to further destruction of properties. “Don’t throw dirt on waterways or build on waterways – whether man-made or natural one. “The solution lies in the people and the government too must take proactive measures to ensure that those on waterways vacate the places. “We will continue to appeal to our people for attitudinal change before taking any measure,’’ he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .