 Nigerian children attend independence day celebrations in Lagos in October 1. PHOTO: Pius Utomi Ekpei/AFP  This newspaper thinks this is not how a truly independent country should carry on. If we go by the definition of independence provided by common dictionaries, namely, freedom from subjection, exemption from external control – then it could be said that this country lacks independence let alone retains it. That a country or nation-state has independence is not the ability to correctly ape the rest of the world to the detriment of our country. Independence is not about opening a country to foreign aid and paternalistic relationships. Genuine independence is the decisive capacity, to identify the needs of the people, and the autonomy to develop home-grown solutions to addressing those needs. It entails charting a course for positive, progressive change.
 
As well-meaning Nigerians know, charting the course of a new Nigeria is a daunting one. To chart a course for progress, Nigeria needs big dreamers and, more especially, people who would not want to do things the usual way. To justify any claim of being independent, Nigerians must first of all, ascertain the basis upon which they lay claim to independence. Do the different people that make up Nigeria see themselves first of all as Nigerians? Or do they lay claim to clannish or tribal allegiance as their most fundamental identity?
 
If Nigerians cherish their independence they must have a sense of national pride and national spirit, through which all the values, ethos and cultures from their different ethnic groups are harnessed. In other words, there must be a genuine sense of belonging in this country we call ours. To this end, the political class and ruling elite must not place a section of the country over others, or treat others as second-class citizens. They and the populace need to understand that leadership is not about ethnic domination or selfish power imbalance. It is rather a disposition of moral strength and sacrifice to genuinely carry out a mission for the common good.
 
Furthermore, there is the need for mental decolonisation through cognitive restructure of the Nigerian mind. Such kind of cognitive restructuring would centre on cultural education and enlightenment. By cultural education is meant not the shallow information dissemination that goes on routinely in our institutions of learning, but rather an advocacy for deep understanding of Nigeria’s historical and multicultural space. This kind of education demands a patriotic retrieval of problem-solving instruments and indigenous models from our repertoire of cultural experience.
 
This is the way forward-looking nations all over the world have addressed national challenges. Like great nations of today, countries from non-western civilisations have built upon the knowledge of their past to build their nations. With this kind of education narratives that collectively traumatize the black race would have to be revisited by presenting our own narratives about our history.
 
Above all, the true test of a great nation, a truly independent nation lies in the quality of leadership of a country, for great nations are built on the character of the people. Rosalynn Carter says “A leader takes people where they want to be. A great leader takes people where they don’t necessarily want to go, but ought to be.” The renowned politician, stateswoman, and fourth Prime Minister of Israel, Golda Meir, was known to have made a remark about the biblical sojourn of Moses-led Israelites to explain the stuff great nations are made of. Moses led the Israelites to a wilderness for 40 years to a place where there is no oil in the Middle East.
 
When one considers what Israel has done with a land without oil, one could imagine what they would have done if they had oil. In essence, a true nation is one that parades a leader who can make a people resourceful even if their country does not have resources. That is what true independence means.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .