OzzyBosco Wonderkid, singer and performer, Oziomachukwu Favour Mojekwu well known as OzzyBosco has launched his debut album entitled Journey of Life: Stop Suicide Africa. The album launch, which held at Sheraton Hotel, Ikeja, amidst pomp and funfare, featured some of Nigeria’s music heavyweights including Ruggedman, Sound Sultan, Vector, MI, Olamide, and Zlatan among others In his welcome address, the Chief launcher, Akin Akinwunmi, recalled that when he was eight years, he asked a lot of questions about life from people, adding that a lot of people whom he does not know inspired him greatly, hence decision to also inspire young people. He commended all the mothers for their support towards their children in becoming great and successful in life. He applauded Ozzybosco for his musical prowess and admonished him to stay true to his music ideals, as he is a symbol of excellence to young people. Speaking to journalists, the elated mother of the young star, Mrs Nonye Mojekwu-Chukwujama, said she feels an inch taller and on top of the world with the success and achievement recorded so far by Ozzybosco. She said, “Ozzybosco is over the moon and with his debut album launch, it is like getting married. The theme, ‘Journey of Life: Stop Suicide Africa’ is all about Africans and people are supposed to be their brother’s keeper. They have no reason to commit suicide, when you knock on your brother’s door, he opens the door to listen to what you have to say and renders helps, unlike developed countries, where they mind their businesses.” “Africans needs to stick together; people don’t have a reason to take their lives. It is very painful when I read suicide notes by people. My son sometimes calls my attention to what the individual has written. As a child, your mother tells you not to do this and that it is not good but the individual goes ahead to commit suicide. In school, your teacher tells you, you have not done well in one particular subject and the student goes to commit suicide,” Mojekwu-Chukwujama added. According to her, this is the time for people to campaign against suicide tendencies, stressing that with the campaign coming from Ozzybosco, it will have the desired impact and taken to different parts of the country and Africa. Commenting on the production duration for the album, Mojekwu-Chukwujama, said it took two years for it to be launched, adding that the young star is in school and the family gives more attention to education because if education is not first then nothing else works. “Being in school has a positive impact in his life. If you let a child listen to music, it sharpens the child’s brain but it is left for the parents or adults to channel that child towards the right direction so that he doesn’t derail. Ozzybosy’s mind has been channeled to become passionate with children, with people who are suffering and enjoining him to become charitable in helping the less privilege. He is very humble and we have trained him to be humble, respectful and not to follow everything that comes his way,” she stated. While enjoining people not to commit suicide because it is not good and it is not an option, elated OzzyBosco, who won the Nigerian Kids Got Talent in 2011, when he was four years old said he is happy to launch his debut album. He encouraged them to seek for counseling that will make them not to commit suicide. The launch was spiced with comedy performances from Mr Ibu, Kofi, while Ozzybosco and up-and-coming musicians thrilled the audience with their performances.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .