Former Minister of Power, Prof. Chinedu Nebo Former Minister of Power, Prof. Chinedu Nebo, said yesterday that the painful aspect of Igbo marginalisation in the country was that its political leaders were being used by others to punish the Igbo. This is as Ndigbo were asking political parties in the country to cede their 2023 presidential tickets to the South East for justice and fairness. Nebo, a former minister, lamented that many prominent Igbo politicians, both elected and appointed, had not used their offices to change the fortune of their people, but had rather used such opportunities to the detriment of the zone. Speaking during the inauguration of the South East For Presidency 2023 Movement (SEFOP2023), Enugu State chapter, he stated that time had come for the people of the zone to rise and take their destiny in their own hands. He said: “The injustices against the South East are alarming, but the most painful aspect is that our politicians are being used to marginalise our people. That is the annoying part of it. “When they have the opportunity to change the cause of Ndigbo in the South East, they renege upon their responsibilities and promise. “But one day, God will raise a leader among us who will not be part of the cabal and charlatans who call themselves politicians.” National coordinator of SEFORP2003, Rev Obiora Okechukwu, said it was the turn of Ndigbo to produce a president of Nigeria as a matter of justice and equity. He said that Nigeria was made of a tripod, with the zone remaining to produce the president, despite her contribution for the development and survival of the country. Meanwhile, a development-inspired Igbo leaders retreat is set to take place in Abakaliki City, Ebonyi State, on November 22 and 23, 2019. The event being packaged by an Igbo Nzuko Umunna, according to a statement by the planning sub-committee on Media and Publicity, Collins Ugwu, would involve committed Igbo professionals at home and abroad, in league with the South East Governors’ Forum. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .