 [FILES] Lalong, Chairman Northern Governors Forum  A communiqué issued in Abuja after a two-day conflict resolution meeting of the NGF, elders, and leaders of both communities, revealed that no fewer than 300 youths would be trained on conflicts resolution and management techniques. The communiqué was signed by President of Tiv Community, Goodman Dahida, Spokesman of Jukun Community, Daniel Emmanuel Angyu and Chairman, Tiv/Jukun Conflict Reconciliation Committee, Abdul-Azeez Suleiman. It noted that the committee recognised the fact that every tribe in Taraba State and the North must join the process of harnessing the diversity to create communities in which every citizen enjoys equal access to opportunities and justice in a secure environment. “The meeting resolves that leaders of Jukun and Tiv communities would initiate the end of hostilities, intensity genuine search for peaceful co-existence and sustained security in all affected parts of the state. “The committee would convene an enlarged roundtable dialogue to involve northern traditional rulers, NGF, Northern Elders Forum (NEF), other stakeholders and leaders of Taraba communities on October 29, 2019, in Jalingo. “It would initiate an immediate process for the training Jukun and Tiv youths in conflict resolution and management, as well as skills acquisition and subsequent exposure to wealth creation opportunities, beginning with an initial 300 youths. “The leaders would mobilise the people, particularly the youths of both groups involved in the crisis to resist further instigations to embark on actions with negative consequences on their personal security and overall political and economic fortunes of the state,” the communiqué reads. It added that members of the committee would also sensitise all levels of leadership of the warring communities to support the legitimate aspirations of their youths to reverse the current trend towards their further marginalisation and irrelevance in a contemporary world of enormous opportunities and possibilities. The committee was also mandated to rally all Taraba communities to unite, rediscover and pursue common goals, historic unity, political and economic development, religious strength, social and moral values and respect for their diversity. “To restore hope, trust and faith of all Taraba communities in their capacity and ability to negotiate peacefully among themselves in circumstances that best suit their interests. “To set up an implementation committee comprising three representatives of Tiv and Jukun communities to implement the above resolutions, as well as monitor and evaluate the level of success,” the communiqué added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .