 Relationship photo bustle.com As ladies, at times, you find it difficult to express how deeply you love your man. Men could be complicated, however, they also want to be loved. There are different ways to show your man you love him and below are some ways. Discover his love language Everyone has different love languages and it might be difficult to find which one your partner appreciates more. Try different methods to show your man you love him and look out for the one he appreciates more. Once you discover this, stick to it and express your love via this method often. You could also study how he shows you he loves you and reciprocate this method. Sincerely Compliment him Telling him you love him in between random conversations will be appreciated by him. When he looks really good, remember to tell him. Be sincere with your compliments. Do you love the way he smiles? Appreciate the way he helps you carry your bags when you’re together, adore the way he treats everyone as if they’re the only person in the room and incredibly important? Let him know! This doesn’t have to be a long conversation. Just speak up when you notice something. Make his meals “The quickest way to a man’s heart is his stomach”. This is a popular saying, however, this does not have to be every day, however, once in a while, make him his favourite dish. If he is going on a long business meeting, consider packing a lunch. He’ll appreciate the gesture and the food. It’s also a surefire way to remind him about you when you’re not there. Encourage him Encourage him often, care about his mental health as much as you care about his physical health. Discuss important issues with him, help him make important decisions, encourage him to express his emotions especially those emotions he might thing make him a weakling. Be positive. Be Playful Make every time meaningful, and he will appreciate it more. If you’ve been together for a long time, you may not feel as playful as you used to. Remember the things you loved most about him and how you used to interact. Don’t always let the goofy side hide behind the serious one as time goes on. Let your silly side out, too. Think back to how you spent your early days together and try to replicate those sometimes by going on fun dates.