Shakur Ahmad Rufai In ensuring industry ethical standard and best practices, the Acting Director of Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), Shakur Ahmad Rufai, has warned oil and gas laboratory operators to avoid compromising data analysis results, and to uphold objectivity and sincerity of purpose. Rufai gave the warning at the 3rd Oil and Gas Industry Laboratory Stakeholders Workshop, held in Lagos to chat a new direction for laboratory managers and operators towards embracing industry best practices in laboratory data analysis in the oil and gas industry. The two-day workshop is themed, “Enhancing laboratory best practices and capacity Building towards promoting sustainable development in the Nigerian oil and gas industry’’. Rufai represented by Deputy Director, Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) Division of DPR, Dr Musa Zagi, said laboratory practice in the Nigerian oil and gas Industry should not only be viewed as a business or money-making venture. He said that laboratory practices should be seen as a critical and sensitive component, which inputs are critical for decision-making across the oil and gas value chain. The DPR boss said the question to be answered is how equipped and efficient operators’ laboratories are for conducting these scientific observations and analyses? He said: “It is my fervent hope and firm belief, that the discussions will ignite a strong determination and resolve among all oil and gas laboratory stakeholders to begin to chart a definitive and sustainable path towards uncompromised and consistent quality of service and integrity of results. Rufai said that the quality and integrity of the data or results churned out from laboratories in the oil and gas sector of the economy is a critical ingredient in decision making (for both regulators and operators) without which there can be no real value addition and sustainability. He said that the agency (DPR) has put in place, machinery to ensure good laboratory practice in the Nigerian oil and gas industry. He said the machinery, which includes the accreditation and permitting process for companies rendering laboratory services in the sector has been further strengthened by the oil and gas laboratories stakeholders’ workshop since the first workshop, which was held in 2015. “I would like to reiterate this department’s commitment towards working with all stakeholders to drive and enhance good laboratory practice within the sub-sector, encourage, and (where necessary) enforce capacity building with the ultimate goal/objective of promoting sustainable development in the industry. “To every participant at this workshop and indeed to all stakeholders, I charge you with the responsibility of ensuring the workshop turnouts not only the best you have so seen so far, but also become a pivotal force that would catapult laboratory practice within the Nigerian oil and gas sector towards a pedestal where it becomes a reference point for international standards and indeed the world’s best. “At this juncture, I would like to draw our minds and attention to the meaning of the term ‘laboratory’ as defined by Merriam-Webster Dictionary – a place equipped for scientific observation, experimental testing, analysis or study. “This year’s theme – Enhancing Laboratory Best Practices and Capacity Building Towards Promoting Sustainable Development in the Nigerian Oil and Gas Industry could not be more apt,’’ he added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .