The All Progressive Congress (APC) candidate for the Bayelsa State governorship election holding on November 16, David Lyon, has assured oil-bearing communities of adequate development from the 13 per cent derivation fund. David, who was received at Olugbobiri community in Southern Ijaw Council in a festival-like manner, told thousands of the indigenes that lined up the major road to welcome him that he would take priority in tackling the developmental challenges in most oil communities in the state. He said the communities have yet to benefit from the 13 per cent derivation funds, as the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) government of Governor Seriake Dickson has not given priority attention to development in such communities. The APC candidate was accompanied by Preye Oseke, the member representing Southern Ijaw State Constituency; his running mate, Senator Degi Eremie and Israel Goli, member representing Brass/Nembe Federal Constituency in the House of Representative. Indigenes of the community had defiled the heavy downpour to receive their illustrious son in a colorful display of love boats and masquerades in their different traditional regalia. Speaking to the enthusiastic crowd, Lyon said: “You can see that the volatile floodwaters in the river and the waves became calm. You see how the community has come alive with pomp to receive our entourage. This clearly shows our acceptance. “That is why we must do everything we can to bring smiles to the faces of people in the oil-bearing communities. They have endured enough suffering, while those in power continue to waste our money. This must stop now; we must make a change and ensure that money meant for oil-bearing communities from the 13 per cent derivation funds are judiciously used for the development of such communities.” He used the occasion to officially inform the community that he is the authentic candidate of the APC for the election, urging them to be more prayerful and united to ensure he becomes the next governor of the state. Also speaking, Oseke thanked the people for giving birth to a worthy son like Lyon, whom he said is the lion of the tribe of Bayelsa. He urged the community to be more united to vote massively for Lyon on November 16 to be able to enjoy the dividend of democracy, which has remained elusive for 20 years of PDP rule in the state. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .