 Kaizer Chiefs’ goalkeeper, Daniel Akpeyi has been recalled to the Super Eagles ahead of the AFCON qualifiers against Benin Republic and Lesotho.  First choice keeper, Francis Uzoho is out for several months after his horrific injury against Brazil.   Also making a return to the squad is defender Kenneth Omeruo, while there is another opportunity for midfielder Mikel Agu to flow back to the mainstream.
 
Super Eagles’ Technical Adviser, Gernot Rohr also named captain Ahmed Musa in the squad after injury and midfielder Ramon Azeez retained his position after seeing action in this month’s 1-1 draw with five–time world champions, Brazil in Singapore.
 
France–based utility player, Samuel Kalu also returns after missing the prestige friendly against Brazil. England–based midfielder Oghenekaro Etebo is on standby as a result of his injury and is being monitored.
 
Nigeria, who won the bronze medals in Egypt, open their campaign for a place in Cameroon 2021 by welcoming the Squirrels of Benin Republic (who also featured in Egypt) to the Godswill Akpabio Stadium, Uyo on November 13, before flying to Maseru to play Lesotho’s Crocodiles on November 17, on Day Two of the qualifying series. Meanwhile, three players, Leon Balogun (Brighton & Hove Albion, England); Peter Olayinka (SK Slavia Prague, Czech Republic) and Oghenekaro Etebo (Stoke City, England) have been placed on standby. The invited players: 
Goalkeepers: Daniel Akpeyi (Kaizer Chiefs, South Africa); Ikechukwu Ezenwa (Heartland FC); Maduka Okoye (Fortuna Dusseldorf, Germany)
Defenders: Kenneth Omeruo (CD Leganes, Spain); Abdullahi Shehu (Bursaspor FC, Turkey); Chidozie Awaziem (CD Leganes, Spain); William Ekong (Udinese FC, Italy); Olaoluwa Aina (Torino FC, Italy); Jamilu Collins (SC Padeborn 07, Germany); Oluwasemilogo Ajayi (West Bromwich Albion, England); Bryan Idowu (Lokomotiv Moscow, Russia)
Midfielders: Alexander Iwobi (Everton FC, England); Mikel Agu (Vitoria Guimaraes, Portugal); Wilfred Ndidi (Leicester City, England); Joseph Ayodele-Aribo (Glasgow Rangers, Scotland); Ramon Azeez (Granada FC, Spain).
Forwards: Ahmed Musa (Al Nassr, Saudi Arabia); Victor Osimhen (Lille OSC, France); Moses Simon (FC Nantes, France); Samuel Chukwueze (Villarreal FC, Spain); Paul Onuachu (KRC Genk, Belgium); Emmanuel Dennis (Club Brugge, Belgium); Samuel Kalu (Girondins Bordeaux, France).  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .