Davido | Photo GH Headlines • It is wrong to parade women over prank, says police PPRO 
Two ladies who in a viral video accused popular musician, David Adeleke, a.k.a. Davido, of impregnating one of them, have now been apprehended and handcuffed. It was not clear which security agency arrested them, but in a video shared on social media by Davido’s hype man, Edward Ijah, also known as Special Spech, both girls are seen in handcuffs and looking dejected. The video showed the two ladies, simply identified as Helen and Susan, in handcuffs sitting on a chair in a living room. Spesh could be heard telling one of the ladies to lift up her head or get a slap in the face. He subsequently told them they were in trouble for “deformation (sic) of character.” Davido also posted a smiley in the comment section, laughing over the treatment meted out to the women. The cyberspace was agog last Wednesday with the news of two young ladies accusing Davido of impregnating one of them. Immediately the news hit the waves, Davido denied the claims and placed a N1 million reward for anyone with the whereabouts of the ladies. The two ladies have since released a new video via their Instagram account, claiming they were just messing around. The bogus claim came on the heels of the singer’s delight at welcoming his first child with long-time girlfriend, Chioma Rowland, on Sunday. Reacting to the development, the Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Bala Elkana, has faulted Spech for handcuffing and parading the two women who accused Davido of impregnating one of them. Elkana said it was wrong of Davido and his team to take the law into their own hands. Elkana said a citizen has the right to arrest another person and hand over to the police immediately but no citizen had the right to parade another. He sighted the case of a popular rich man, Onye Eze, who was arrested earlier in the year for arresting a popular blogger, Blessing Okoro, who had taken photos of his house, claiming ownership of the property. The police spokesman said: “Even if someone defamed your character, you are to hand over the person to the police immediately but to parade them is wrong. The person being paraded has the right to sue. Private citizens have no right to parade another person. Not all policemen even have the power to parade suspects. “You cannot be a judge in your own case. If he feels aggrieved, he should lodge a complaint and not go to effect an arrest. He cannot conclude the guilt of another person. There must be an investigation and only a court can pronounce them guilty,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .