Photo: MAKAAN The Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) has taken the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led Federal Government to Federal High Court 5, Abuja, presided over by Justice Inyang Ekwo for increasing the Value Added Tax (VAT). Also, the Action Peoples Party (APP) has sued the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning over the issue. In a statement yesterday, the group’s spokesperson, who is the national chairman of APP, noted that the move was necessary to save Nigerians from economic strangulation. “The Nigerian opposition coalition, CUPP, acting through one of its alliance party members, APP, has commenced legal action in the Federal High Court aimed at bringing succour to the already traumatised and impoverished Nigerian citizenry who are daily being punished by APC-led Federal Government through obnoxious tax regimes. “The Federal High Court presided over by Justice Ekwo of Court 5 has since commenced hearing in this historic people-oriented litigation,” it stated. CUPP, The Guardian gathered, asked the Federal High Court to determine three questions, which it believed will be answered in its favour, as they were all issues of law and public interest. “For a government to clearly go outside the direct provisions of the law just to suffer citizens and tax them out of existence is condemnable, arbitrary, undemocratic, tyrannical, capricious, oppressive, cruel and indeed must be rejected and resisted. “Is it not worrisome that a government that has failed for six months to implement a new minimum wage regime, which would have barely lifted the purchasing power of workers, has since that time increased VAT, agreed to return toll gates, embarked on unbridled borrowing, increased electricity tariff without commensurate increase in electricity supply, uses a quarter of the budget to service debts and imposes other Jankara economic policies and wicked taxes all aimed at tightening the economic space of the common citizen while they live in affluence and extravagance, including abandoning governance to unelected hands and junketing from one foreign country to another,” the coalition added. The group maintained that the increase in VAt was insensitive and capable of leading Nigerians to death. “This struggle is not about the opposition but about the welfare of the common man, which President Buhari and his APC care less about and have no capacity to fix their welfare,” it stated, urging all citizens to show solidarity at the next adjourned date “to show the world that we are united in action to stop this band of insensitive people from taxing our citizens to death.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .