PHOTO: INSIDEOYO Assembly to screen nominees for LG service commission next week
Oyo State Government has vowed to bring to book the perpetrators of an inferno, which razed a block of three classrooms at Cannon Okusehinde Memorial Primary School, School I, Aremo, Ibadan. Executive Chairman, Oyo State Universal Basic Education Board, Dr. Nureni Aderemi Adeniran, disclosed this yesterday when he visited the school to assess the level of destruction caused by the arsonists. Frowning at the masterminds of the inferno, Adeniran promised that the state government would investigate the act of arson and fish out all culprits involved, adding that anyone found culpable would face the wrath of the law. “Oyo State government will ensure that this particular incident of arson is investigated, and the offenders punished under the law. “The present administration will not tolerate or condone any form of vandalism or sabotage, especially on our public schools,” Adeniran said. He promised renovation of the burnt classes in the next FGN-UBEC/OYOSUBEB intervention projects. He also approved with immediate effect merging of pupils of the burnt classes with their colleagues in School 2, noting that nothing should stall the learning process of these young ones. Speaking earlier, the Head teacher of the school, Mrs. Sherifat Salam, described the inferno as the height of vandalism on the school. She told the executive chairman that hoodlums had incessantly burgled the school over the past weeks. In another development, Speaker, Oyo State House of Assembly, Adebo Ogundoyin, yesterday said that five nominees forwarded to the House by Governor Seyi Makinde as members of the Oyo State Local Government Service Commission would be screened next Tuesday. The Speaker stated this at the plenary shortly after reading a letter from the governor announcing the composition of the five-man committee. According to the letter, Dr. Remi Ayodele was nominated as chairman of the commission, Alhaji Oyesina Oyedeji and Mr. John Adisa Oke as full-time members while Alhaji Oke Taiwo and Mrs. Nike Arewa, were being considered as part-time members of the commission. The governor in the letter said that the people were nominated based on their track records. The Speaker, therefore, directed the five nominees to submit photocopies of their curriculum vitae to the House on or before Friday, October 25, 2019, ahead of the screening. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .