 Okonwko (middle) with the entrepreneurs  An initiative of Dr. Kennedy Okonkwo, CEO of NED Com Oaks, Owners of Victoria Crest Homes, the lucky entrepreneurs were rewards for their creativity in the business of tech after being carefully selected by a 6-man panel, which include Noble Igwe, Dr Roland Igbinosa, Dr Lizzy and others. In his remarks, the convener Dr. Okonkwo charged young entrepreneur to be hardworking, resilient and never expect anything on a platter of gold, especially in a difficult terrain like Nigeria where there are so many things to pull one down.
 
Speaking further, the real estate mogul told the young entrepreneurs to “expect many discouragements and knock downs, but don’t ever give up. Stay focused and be disciplined in everything you do.” The highlight of the event was the presentation of cheques to the five lucky entrepreneurs picked by the panel of judges.Swift Medispark, a company that develops software​ discouraging paper work in our hospital and encouraging efficiency, went home with $5,000 for coming tops, while the remaining contestants went home with N1,000,000 each. All the contestants were also rewarded with a year office space in Lekki​ and a mentorship class with Dr Okonkwo. Other contestants include Fluxbie, a Public BUS transport application for hailing bus through their smart phone; Akio, real estate software app for rent solution; ALT Consult, an application that gives access to low income earners, who hopes to invest in real estate, and 360 Human, a real estate application that makes it easy for clients to see through houses in a 3D format. Okonkwo, in his closing remarks, urged the contestants, who lost out of the empowerment scheme not to relent on their quest for success and equally reward everyone one with N100,000 cash prize each for participating. Addressing the beneficiaries, Chairman of Insight Communication, Dr. Ken Onyeali Ikpe, urged them to channel their energies to finding solutions rather than complaints, as there are lots of opportunities in the country.​ ​ ​Other dignitaries at the event are Sylvester Okonkwo, MD/CEO Chintos; Ronald Igbinoba, CEO of Pythos Group; Julius Omodayo Owotuga, CEO Amperion and others.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .