 Brazil’s midfielder Casemiro (#5) kicks the ball to score an equaliser during an international friendly football match between Brazil and Nigeria at the National Stadium in Singapore on October 13, 2019. (Photo by Roslan RAHMAN / AFP)  The South American champions forced Nigeria to a 1-1 draw at the Singapore National Stadium in Kallang, but the impressive display by the Super Eagles, who finished third at the African Nations Cup in February, left many of their fans thinking that the good days are back. But Rohr urges caution, saying, however, that the team is beginning to show the quality he has always known that they possess. The German, who reiterated his earlier stance that matches like yesterday’s against Brazil would test his team’s progress, expressed satisfaction with the outcome of the game. There were moments of anxiety for the Nigerian coach, especially when his first-choice goalkeeper, Francis Uzoho was stretchered out injured in the second. But at the end of the day, he was pleased with the state of his team ahead of the African Nations Cup qualifiers. “It was a fantastic opportunity for us to learn a few more things that will make us better and stronger for future challenges. “This is an important test game for us, and we are here to learn from the best. We hope for a very good game against Brazil. “This will help us prepare ourselves for the 2021 Afcon qualifiers against the Benin Republic and Lesotho next month,” he had said before them. Yesterday, Villarreal of Spain’s Chukwueze, a former Nigeria U17 World Cup winner, was a thorn in the flesh of the Selecao throughout, and created chances for Nigeria in the 20th and 24th minute but Osimhen was cut out by an alert Brazilian rear.
 
In the 28th minute, Nigeria goalkeeper Francis Uzoho showed excellent agility in cutting out a powerful header by the ubiquitous Gabriel Jesus. Two minutes later, Uzoho was again alert to foil a shot by Firmino and then reacted faster than Philip Coutinho as the ball danced in the box.   To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .