Oyo State Deputy Governor, Rauf Olaniyan (left); Commissioner of Police, Shina Olukolu; Secretary to the State Government, Olubamiwo Adeosun; Special Adviser to Governor Makinde on Security, CP Fatai Owoseni (rtd) and squadron commanders, during a visit to the Governor’s Office in Ibadan… yesterday. Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde has approved the mobilisation of contractors handling different projects for the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Office back to site, charging them to deliver the projects to specification and time. The governor gave the directive yesterday through his Senior Special Assistant on SDG, Mr. Kunle Yusuff, during a meeting with the SDG contractors handling school renovation, furniture supply and other projects across the state, held at the Secretariat, Agodi, Ibadan. Yusuff said Makinde had demonstrated his commitment to the welfare of the people by giving an approval to mobilise contractors back to site without scrutiny rigmarole despite the fact that they were enlisted by the immediate past administration. He added that the decision followed the governor’s earlier approval to embark on contract evaluation, which led to the contractors explaining their challenges, noting that the governor gave approval for the contractors to access their money but with a mandate to deliver on the projects before the end of this month. He also stated that SDG office would soon introduce a community engagement initiative to prevent vandalism of government projects, adding that vandalism of government projects would no longer be condoned, as the Chief Security Officer to Governor Makinde expressed the readiness of security agencies to partner with the SDG office and contractors to prevent vandalism of projects. Meanwhile, Makinde has tasked the police to always be guided in their policing activities to keep Nigeria one.The governor, represented by his deputy, Rauf Olaniyan, gave the charge when 68 Squadron Commanders on combat training course at Ila-Orangun, Osun State, paid him a courtesy visit in Ibadan, the state capital. The governor, who maintained that the police must strive for professionalism in policing the country, urged the law enforcement agency to continuously optimise training of its personnel to cushion the nation’s security challenges.The state Commissioner of Police, Shina Olukolu, said the retraining would enable police officers to be better equipped with combat techniques. Also, leader of the visiting “punching squad,” ACP Livingstone Orutugu, noted that police officers, with the training, were being empowered to combat violent crimes and attack crisis.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .