PHOTO: DOWNTOEARTH How safe is the plastic drinking bottle?
The plastics for our drinking water and containers for storing food are manufactured using an industrial chemical known as BPA (Bisphenol A). BPA is used in the production of polycarbonate plastics, which are used in plastic bottles and food containers. They are also found in epoxy resins that are commonly found in the internal coating of metals cans for food and bottle tops. Now, let us consider a few questions and find answers to them. How widespread is Bisphenol A? In a study carried out in America, it was found that 93% of the volunteers for a research programme had BPA in their urine. From the tableware we use for meals, to the plastic bottles for water and infant feeding bottles to the compact discs and pipes and cans for food storage are either lined with epoxy resins which also contain BPA or produced with BPA-containing chemicals. It is like wherever you turn to, you will encounter BPA. Foetuses and infants may be more vulnerable to the effects of BPA. Indeed, researchers have found out that the effects of prenatal exposure to BPA appear later in life. Several research groups are today studying BPA and its effect on man. What are the effects of BPA on the human body? 
With the numerous research findings all over the world, it is becoming a lot more evident that this chemical, affects every organ in the body. Be that as it may, it is the classification of BPA as a xenoestrogen A xenoestrogen is a xenohormone that mimics the actions of oestrogen. It is capable of binding to the eostrogen receptors in the breast and stimulates them to proliferate as though they were stimulated by oestrogen, oetradiol in particular. Xenoestrogens are either natural or synthetic, like BPA and because they imitate the action of oestrogen, they can easily increase the amount of unopposed oestrogen in the body. In other words, the level of oestrogen becomes higher than available progesterone can cope with. The end result of all of this is cancer of the breast, uterus and of the prostate in men. it is not impossible that the increase in the rate at which cancer is diagnosed in women today is directly connected to the increase in the use of these plastic bottles for drinking water. Also, the rate at which BPA leaches from the bottle into the water or food is directly proportional to the temperature of the water or food in the bottle or that of the bottle itself. In the past, breast cancer was considered a disease of the older women. It can no longer be said to be a disease of grand ma because it cuts across all ages, from the twenties through the forties to the very elderly. I have seen a 16-year-old girl with terminal stage breast cancer. My only explanation for this until I am proven wrong, is the use of BPA laden-bottles. Why not? I ask myself. All our drinking water in these bottles are left outside to boil under the sun or exposed even in the van that is bringing them from where they are produced to the shops where they will be sold. As if that were not enough these bottles are used repeatedly to sell beverages like kunu, zobo and all sorts of yellow and black drinks in motor packs. I want to believe that these people that collect these bottles from the refuse dumps or party sites soak and wash them in hot water. Unknown to them they render hundreds of thousands of molecules of BPA free. Heating food in plastic plates and bowls in the microwave oven is a sure way of increasing this carcinogen in the food. This oven may have been a blessing years ago when it got into town. However, we know better today and I actually consider it evil to give your own out to somebody else. What then can be done to either eliminate this BPA or reduce its exposure. I believe that time has come for the government to legislate against the use of plastic bottles for drinking water and plastic cans for food. In developed countries like Canada and some in Europe and some states in America such plastics have been banned. Avoid the use of microwave ovens. Sellers of drinking water most be counseled about the danger of leaving water in plastic bottles in the sun. Do not drink water that you left in your car for a long time in a very hot day. You will agree that such water and bottle can become extremely hot. As much as possible do not drink anything from a used bottle. Plastic bottles must not be recycled. We have to go back to the days of storing water in glass bottles.
www.nutritionand healthmanagers.com, 08033018181  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .