 Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos  Meanwhile, the African Development Bank (AfDB) and International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) have reached an agreement to ensure ACI conducts apex review of 17 African Airports over the next 18 months, in a bid to help those airports improve on their processes and procedures. The Director General of the Airports Council International (ACI-World), Angela Gittens, and Airports Council International Africa (ACI-Africa) President, Mohammed El Aoufir, said these at 28th Airports Council International Africa (ACI-Africa) annual general assemble and regional conference and exhibition, Gittens said Africa had fast growing economies and with Single African Air Transport Market’s (SAATM) launch, and the potential of a common aviation market, the move would improve the socio-economic benefits, while calling on the gathering to find innovative solutions to some challenges bedeviling improvement in the region. She noted that Africa is home to some of the fastest growing economies in the world and with the recent launch of the SAATM by the African Union, we can expect further improvement to open skies. “The growing commitment to a common aviation market has the potential to alleviate existing regulatory strengths and among other factors advance connectivity in the continent. It also has the potential of increasing the socio-economic benefits that aviation and airports bring to the communities they serve. “Considering the region’s potential for growth and its possible impediments, it has become more important than ever to foster a climate of innovation. In the spirit of no-airport-left-behind, we need to consider solutions for airports big and small with different regulatory and operational realities. “How can we help everyone to grow? Airports’ regions, at least in Africa, are faced with the pressure of managing performance and growth without constantly adding infrastructure and cost, while striving for environmental sustainability and robust security,” she said.El Aoufir explained that the African Development Bank and ICAO, has asked the ACI to conduct apex review at 17 African Airports over the next 18 months, showing ICAO’s belief in the ACI-Apex review. He also revealed that the ACI Board approved ACI strategic plan for 2020-2024 with the African Airports development program (AADP) filling the gap that usually exists in the aftermath of an Apex mission. “Pleased to announce the release of renewed of our ACI strategic plan 2020-2024 by our board two days ago, which sets our strategy direction for the next five years. This plan aims at positioning Africa as the only voice of African airports and the legal aviation association on the African continent. The plan has identified the main internal and external challenges of ACI-Africa and proposes a series of initiatives and actions to respond adequately, the growing and pressing needs of our members. “With this plan, it is expected that ACI-Africa will be better positioned to support development of healthy, efficient, effective, safe, secure and sustainable air transport in Africa and contribute to the economic growth and prosperity of the region.“African Airports Development Program (AADP) which is the new lead program of ACI-Africa and which is the main catalyst of our strategic plan. This programme is the gateway of African support to confidentially achieve excellence in management, operations, capacity building to the chain of experience and expertise to the African continent.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .