Vicar General, Catholic Archdiocese of Lagos Episcopal Vicar, Ikeja Region, Rt. Rev. (Dr.) Monsignor John Aniagwu, has described Nigerian politicians as selfish and self-centered given their huge allowances, which he said, had impoverished the country. According to him, while the ruling class budgets huge amount of money for themselves, critical sectors in the country are in penury. The cleric, who spoke at a carol night programme organised by the Proprietress of Adam and Eve Luxury Home, Mrs. Dupe Ogunlesi, said that lack of goodwill among the politicians was the result of lack of peace that the country is currently facing. He said: “The salaries and allowances of the politicians should be reduced drastically. They are earning too much and they are impoverishing the country. It doesn’t make sense. The politicians are self-centered and they need to cut down on their greed for the sake of the country. “From the local council level to the state level and to the federal level, see how much they budget for themselves on a yearly basis, compared to what they budget for education, healthcare, roads, housing, power, infrastructure, and the military. See how many government employees and pensioners are being owed salaries for months. But the jumbo salaries and allowances of the ruling class are never delayed even for a week. That is unjust. “When we come to the security situation in our country, we are faced with a hydra-headed monster, the worst forms of bad will. Boko Haram is still out there killing and maiming innocent soldiers and civilians.” The cleric, however, expressed optimism that there was hope for the country if only the people would embrace goodwill towards others. On her part, Ogunlesi said that the programme was to remind Nigerians of the message of Christmas, which is peace to men of goodwill, saying: “It is our lack of goodwill that we don’t have peace. So, it is important that we think again so that we can be men of goodwill. Our politicians must imbibe the culture of goodwill.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .