There was pandemonium in Abule Ado area of Amuwo Odofin, Lagos State, at the weekend after hoodlums went on rampage. During the fracas, a traditional chief, the Akogun of Ado kingdom, Chief Muritala and another victim simply identified as Prince Fasiu, were stabbed and macheted in different parts of their body. They were later rushed to a private hospital. Unfortunately, Chief Muritala passed on in the early hours of yesterday as a result of the severe injuries while doctors are still battling to save Fasiu It was gathered that prior to the attack, there was a fire outbreak within Abule-Ado community, which consumed many makeshift shops and houses. Soon after, some hoodlums took advantage of the situation to steal and rob residents of their valuables. However, trouble started when one of the hoodlums who was seen carting away a television set was confronted and the television retrieved from him, a situation that didn’t go down well with the miscreants. By Sunday evening, the hoodlums had started fomenting trouble, terrorising residents and moving bottles that they would use to unleash mayhem in the community. When Chief Muritala heard of the activities of the hoodlums, he invited their coordinator, Mr. Ahkeem Lawal, to speak with him in order to call his boys to order. It was gathered that while Chief Muritala and Ahkeem Lawal was discussing in front of the Ado family office, located opposite Avant Grobel Pharmacy, the hoodlums, who were armed to the teeth with guns, machete, axes, bottles and charms, kept drawing close till it was late for the victims to escape and they unleashed their attack on the mediators. According to an eyewitness, Afeez Olorunkemi, the Otun of Ado, “the incident happened while Chief Muritala was pleading with Lawal to call his boys to order at the Ado youth office when the hoodlums kept walking towards us. Lawal assured us that there was no cause for alarm and that we should not be scared. So we stayed not knowing they had other plans. They got so close till it was impossible to escape and they launch their attack. “When they launched their attack, Lawal simply walked straight to his vehicle and drove off without cautioning his boys as if nothing was happening. Prince Fasiu was attacked inside the toilet where he ran to for safety. Fasiu was hiding under the wash hand basin inside the toilet when one of the hoodlums attacked him.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .