• Another docked for stealing Jumia’s goods
An Ikeja Magistrates’ Court in Lagos, yesterday, sentenced a 41-year-old man, Kehinde Benjamin, to 168 hours community service for assaulting two electricity officials with an iron rod. The magistrate S. K. Matepo, pronounced the verdict after the defendant said he did not have any defence. “You are hereby sentenced to 168 hours community service. The sentence will serve as a deterrent to others who may want to engage in similar acts,” she said.Benjamin, a resident of Lagos Island, was first arraigned on November 11, 2014, but he pleaded not guilty to the charge of assault levelled against him. The defendant was then granted N50,000 bail, with two sureties in like sum and had been appearing in court since then. However, when it was the defendant’s turn to prove the case on Thursday, he told the court that he did not have any defence, a development that prompted the magistrate to sentence him. During the defendant’s arraignment, the prosecutor, Innocent Odugbo, had told the court that he committed the offence on November 4, 2014, at his residence. Odugbo, a police sergeant, said Benjamin assaulted Messrs Oluwasegun Adekoya and Segun Olaide while they were performing their duties. “The complainants, who were electricity workers, had come to the residence of the defendant to disconnect his power supply over alleged huge debt. In the process, the defendant beat them with an iron rod, which caused harm to their bodies. The complainants reported the case, which led to the arrest of the defendant.”He said the offence-contravened section 173 of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State, 2015. Meanwhile a 19-year-old man, Opeyemi Olatunji, who allegedly stole goods worth N4.8 million from his employer was charged before an Ikeja Chief Magistrates’ Court. The defendant who works with Jumia International Service Company and resides at 15, Gofamint Estate, Ofada near Mowe in Ogun is being tried for conspiracy and stealing. The prosecutor, SP Clifford Ogu, told the court that the defendant committed the offences between July and August at 109, Adeniyi Jones St., Ikeja. Ogu told the court that the defendant was in charge of keeping the goods some customers had rejected. “The defendant sold some of the goods valued at N4.8 million without the consent of the employer, and neither did he pay the proceeds from the sales into the company’s account.” The company got to know about it when its stocks inside its store were taken and the defendant who was in charge could not account for the missing items.”Ogu said that the defendant was later arrested. He added that the offences violated Sections 287 and 411 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. The defendant, however, pleaded not guilty to the charges.The chief magistrate, Mr. J.A. Adegun, granted the accused bail in the sum of N200, 000 with two sureties in like sum. Adegun, thereafter, adjourned the case until Oct.15 for mention.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .