Proposed new Innoson logo designed by Farouq Osuolale. Twitter/@osuolale_farouq Social media has got its downside just like every other thing. But when its power is positively harnessed and put to good use, it can transport a small thought into a big idea and bring an obscure person to prominence. For Farouq Osuolale, an undergraduate of Nigeria’s premier tertiary institution, University of Ibadan, his talent, foresight and positive use of social media may have just opened a new vista for a career about to blossom. In less than 48 hours, the young Osuolale who is studying to become a computer scientist became popular for redesigning the logo of a blossoming Nigerian car brand, Innoson Vehicle Manufacturing, IVM. In a phone chat with The Guardian, he said he is overwhelmed with the attention he has gotten so far.
“It is really overwhelming, truly overwhelming. I just knew by Gods grace everything will go well,” Osuolale said. With a short, simple message to accompany the images of the new logo with and rationale behind each iconography, Osuolale wrote on his Twitter and Instagram handles: “So I’m proposing a new logo for @innosonvehicles. If this comes across your timeline, please retweet.” People retweeted in droves after seeing the amazing and detailed work. As at the time of writing this piece the logo redesign has gotten over 2k comments, 26k+ retweets and 35k likes by Twitter users.  The design was so appealing that it eventually caught the attention of his target – Innoson Motors – and the car manufacturer did not withhold their acknowledgement and awe. In their response to the design, Innoson also requested a meeting with the young lad whose noble work may thrust him into fame and greater heights. “Dear @Osuolale_farouq the attention of the Chairman/CEO of @Innosonvehicles has been called upon on your creative re-design of IVM logo. The Chairman is highly impressed and has requested for a meeting with you. Please DM to us your contact details for possible reach. Regards,” Innoson tweeted. He doesn’t know yet when he will formally meet with Innoson Motors because of his busy school schedule but he confirmed to The Guardian that a representative of the vehicle manufacturer has reached out and are working out the date when they can meet. “I don’t know yet. We are still planning that. But they have reached out to me,” he said. You never know where your talent, foresightedness and positive use of social media can take you when strategically applied. But sometimes, you just have to do it (like Nike the global sportswear giant preaches) and hope that luck smiles on you for the people who matter to take notice. Social media has scored another positive, once again. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .