The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) said it has arrested four officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Zamfara state for an alleged case of conspiracy, breach of trust and criminal diversion of over N84m meant for Ad Hoc staff allowance during 2019 general elections. The suspects are INEC administrative secretary Hassan Sidi Aliyu, head of operations Hussain Jafar, state accountant Abdullahi Yusuf Abubakar and Abdulmumin Usman. The petitioner -Abdullahi Nasiru, on behalf of all presiding officers that worked for INEC during the 2019 Presidential and Gubernatorial elections in Zamfara State, alleged that the ad hoc staff were denied payment of their N6,000 movement allowance each for the two elections. He further alleged that the amount paid to them was different from what other states paid their ad hoc staff. INEC allegedly paid its staff the sum of N9000 in Zamfara while other states like Sokoto State, the commission paid N12000. EFCC said its investigation revealed that none of the 10,500 presiding officers that worked for INEC in the elections was paid their entitlements of about N84, 696,000. EFCC said it is making efforts to recover the money criminally diverted by the 3 INEC heads of department and Electoral Officers of the 14 Local governments in Zamfara State. The local governments are Abdullahi Sambawa, Zurmi LGA, Aliyu Jafaru Goronyo, Maradun LGA, Balarabe Ahmed S Gobir, Gummi LGA, Amadu Ibrahim, Gusau LGA, Mohammed Bashir Musa, Kaura Namoda LGA, Dalhatu Usman Musa, Birnin Magaji LGA, Abdulmumin Usman, Maru LGA. Others are Muhammad Nasir Saidu, Talatu Mafara LGA, Abdullahi A. Ukashatu, Tsafe LGA, Tukur Garba Kaita, Bungudu LGA, Salihu Musa Abdullahi, Bukuyun LGA, Sadiq Abdullahi, Fari Anka LGA, Lawali Muhammed, Argungu Bakura LGA, Jafaru Gide, Shinkafi LGA, Tanimu Muhammad, Shinkafi LGA and Hassan Abdullahi, Shinkafi LGA. EFCC said the suspects will be arraigned in court as soon as investigation is completed.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .