Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu (in front) and other officials with Uber representatives during the Uber water-boat launch in Lagos yesterday PHOTO:SUNDAY AKINLOLU • Pledges Better Commitment To Girl-Child Issues,
• Tasks Lagosians To Maintain Clean Environment Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu has again promised to fix bad roads in the state and embark on aggressive road re-construction from next month. The governor, who was a guest speaker at Business Made Easy (BME), Lituation organised by the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC) said the heavy rains prevented him from embarking on road re-constructions, as the repaired roads would become damaged immediately. He implored residents and motorists to bear with them, reiterating that most of the roads would witness intervention as soon as the rain ceases. He spoke yesterday at the launch of UberBoat, which is a service extension from Uber, in collaboration with the State Government. In partnership with the State’s Waterways Authority and Texas Connection Ferries, UberBOAT will be available only on weekdays for the next two weeks starting from 11 to 25 October 2019 travelling along the Ikorodu-Falomo and Falomo-Ikorodu. He reiterated this even as he said the launch of the UberBoat signified their commitment to develop water transportation as a deliberate move to ease the worsening traffic gridlock. He added that traffic management and transportation is one of the cardinal programmes of his administration encapsulated in the THEMES agenda, whilst assuring that they would develop inter-modal transportation to ease the pressure on the road as he has directed the Lagos State Waterways Authority (LASWA) not to compromise on safety in regulating activities on the waterway, noting that the state government and the National Inland Waterway Authority (NIWA) are on the same page to develop water transportation in the state. General Manager, Uber West Africa, Lola Kassim, said Uber is deploying its technology to develop the state water transportation. In related news, Dr Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu has said the state government is committed towards ensuring all the issues affecting the girl-child are addressed. Speaking yesterday at a press briefing to unveil the 19th National Women’s Conference of the Committee of Wives of Lagos State Officials (COWLSO) slated for October 22 to 24, she said the present administration would ensure that all issues affecting the girl-child are addressed with vigour, zestfulness and determination. Commenting on the annual conference, she said the theme is ‘Unlearn, learn and relearn: 21st Century women’s T.H.E.S.E.S perspective/Approach with about 3000 women expected as participants and the wife of the President, Aisha Buhari would be the mother of the day, while the event will be declared open by Kwara State Governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .