Wike. Photo/Twitter/OfficialPDPNig Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike has lampooned opposition political parties over their claims at the Governorship Election Petition Tribunal that there was no election in the state on March 9, 2019.He was reacting to dismissal of the petitions of governorship candidates of the African Democratic Party (ADP), Victor Fingesi and Biokpomabo Awara of the African Action Congress (AAC) against his victory. Wike, who was accompanied by the National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Uche Seconds and other PDP leaders in Rivers State, stated this during a thanksgiving service at Government House Chapel of Everlasting Grace, Port Harcourt.He said Saturday’s judgment has accentuated his victory, pointing out that if not for the opposition parties’ reliance on connections, all PDP candidates in the 2019 general elections had no opponents in the state. “It is so painful that someone could say that no election held in Rivers State. There was nobody who ran the election against us. But for connection, how could anyone say he ran election against us in Rivers State,” he said. Wike stressed that he would not be distracted by the antics of the opposition, adding that he would continue to promote the overall interests of Rivers State. “I will not be distracted. I will do everything in the interest of Rivers State. I will continue to work. Nothing will distract me”, he said just as he expressed happiness that justice has been done in the petition and commended his legal team for their commitment. Speaking, Chairman of PDP in Rivers State, Felix Obuah, said the tribunal’s judgment has again ended any inference on Governor Wike’s victory in the March 9, 2019 polls.He stated that power belongs to God and that He alone gives it to who he chooses, stressing that Wike’s victory was a proclamation that God has spoken very loud and clear. “As a believer of God’s word, this victory against the AAC governorship candidate reechoes his word which says, ‘Once has He spoken and twice have I heard that power belongs to God,” Obuah said.He declared the judiciary had once more gone above sentiments to save the nation’s democracy, described the tribunal’s judgment as heartwarming, inspiring and divine, stressing that God has in His infinite mercies rendered the counsel of the wicked foolish. Responding, Ahmed Raji (SAN) said from the beginning, God showed his hand in favour of Rivers State governor, adding that God crowned the efforts of the legal team with success and that the judgment represents a judicial confirmation of the votes of Rivers people. Also speaking, Ferdinand Orbih (SAN) said Governor Wike was a winner anytime, stressing that nobody could change what God has done. On his part, Secondus congratulated Wike on his victory at the tribunal, saying that justice has been served on Rivers people through the judgment.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .