 Bayelsa United will battle with Rivers United in the NWPL Super Four… tomorrow.  She also revealed that the second placed team will get N2 million, while the third place team would be rewarded with N1 million cash prize.Speaking at the media briefing in Lagos yesterday, Falode said the one-week official trip for the eventual champion of the 2018/2019 Super Four is one of the technical activations of the La Liga Women’s League partnership with the NWFL, signed two years ago in Spain. She added that the second aspect of the La Liga partnership empowers the Spanish league management to send technical officials to Nigeria before the commencement of the new season to train coaches in the Women’s League.Falode added: “This is the much we have done to further develop the Nigerian league, as we the board members of the NWFL know quite well that, there is no vibrant national team, without a standard and well developed league football in the country.” She urged women football stakeholders in Nigeria to be ready to invest in the country’s female football, saying, “We have not done badly in  a little over two years since we took office. “We have a league that plays the Super Four and the Champion’s Shield. All we need now for our viable league is a worthy sponsorship. We appeal to the clubs to appreciate the good things done by the board and constructively criticise. We want the best for the league. “The closing gap being experienced from other African countries at the national team level, means, we need to work hard to regain our pride of place at the top of African football.” In the Super Four Match Day One, Adamawa Queens will confront Confluence Queens in the ‘Battle of the Savannah, while defending champions, Bayelsa Queens will slug it out with Rivers Angels in the ‘Battle of the Niger-Delta’. The winners of the two games will play in the final, while the losers will play in the third place match all on Sunday, November 3, 2019.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .