Nigeria’s most prestigious music award show, The Headies has released this year’s nominee’s list. The year in review was announced as January 2018 and June 2019. The award show is scheduled to hold October 19th, 2019. This year’s edition is tagged “The Power Of A Dream” Running for over a decade, the 13th Headies award will feature 23 unique categories in recognition of Africa’s finest artiste. THE 13TH HEADIES NOMINEES LIST Year In Review: January 2018 – June 2019 A non-voting category for the best recording (that meets the judges’ requirements of excellence; songwriting, production, rendition) by an artiste or group in the year under review.  A category for the best pop single in year under review (by single individual or group).  An individual responsible for producing the most acclaimed song or album in the year under review.  A non-voting category for the best album by a rap artiste or group in year under review. A category for the best r&b/pop album in the year under review (by single individual or group).  A voting category for the best conceptualist, best directed and most exciting video in the year under review. This award goes to the video director.  A category for the best r&b single in the year under review (by a single individual or group).  A voting category for the best r&b, pop or hip-hop collaborative track (including cameos).  A voting category for a single (released on-air) recording of a rap song.  A non-voting category for the single male artiste with the most outstanding vocal performance on a single song or album.  A non-voting category for the single female artiste with most outstanding vocal performances on a single song or album.  This category is a voting category for the most promising act in the year under review.  A voting category for the best new artiste with a debut album adjudged to be outstanding in terms of artistic quality and impact within the year under review.  A non-voting category for the rap artiste with the best lyrical depth and performance on a single song or album.  A voting category for the artiste whose songs are inspired by the streets. Such song should captain lingua, which may also be originated by the artiste and popular on the street.  A voting category for the artiste whose songs reflect any form or style of music which falls outside the mainstream of recent or past popular musical trends.  A voting category for the best album (solo or group) in year under review, that meets judges’ requirements of excellence (songwriting, production, rendition and impact).  Most critically and commercially adjudged artiste in the year under review. Overall most successful artiste in the year under review.  A voting category for the most popular song in the year under review.  A non-Nigerian award category for an individual African artiste or group with the most outstanding achievement, impact and infiltration into the Nigerian music scene in the year under review. A voting category to award the fan’s favourite artiste with the most digital tractions (downloads, views, streams) in the year under review. A non-voting category for the artistes whose stagecraft, showmanship and performance routines are exceptionally conceptualized and executed in the year under review with consideration of live performances.  A voting category for the rookie of the year who has had a successful year musically, with the absence of an album in the year under review.  Paul Okoye (Upfront & Personal)