Prince Ebeano Supermarket One of Nigeria’s foremost indigenous supermarkets, Prince Ebeano Supermarket will, from tomorrow, roll out the drums to celebrate its 10th anniversary. The week-long celebration, which kicks off in all its eight outlets in Abuja and Lagos, is also aimed at appreciating and rewarding customers that have kept faith with the outfit over the years. It will be concluded with a Super Jumbo Sales Promotion on Saturday, October 26, 2019. The manager of the Lokogoma outlet in Abuja, Mr. Chidi Kossi said: “We are slashing our prices in what is going to be a massive discount opportunity. During the celebration, we will be offering the kind of discounts that nobody can beat.” The supermarket, which started from one outlet, has grown to eight in Lagos and Abuja, with more on the drawing board. In Lagos, the branches are located in Admiralty Way, Lekki Phase I; Chevron Drive, Lekki-Ajah; Oniru, Lekki, and Ikota Shopping Complex, Ajah. Others are in Isheri, Magodo; Gbagada; Isaac John, Ikeja GRA and Lokogoma, Abuja. Speaking on the anniversary celebration, Kossi said customers’ appreciation is the first on the outfit’s agenda. “We are going to celebrate our customers, who have stayed with us all these years. We will dig into our records and identify those customers who made us what we are today. We will fete them, fuss over them and say, Thank you! Keep standing with us, so that we will complement each other. Of course, we would put a smile on their faces.” Kossi, who said the supermarket owes its fast-paced growth to customers added: “Those who were happy shopping here told their friends and neighbours, and it spread like that. One satisfied customer to another kept on spreading the good news. For making customers happy, the Prince Ebeano brand has become the place to shop. It is a fulfilling prophecy of the name Ebeano, meaning the place to be. “Yes, we are 10 this year, and we owe it all to our customers. No matter what we have done to make Prince Ebeano Supermarket the best in town, if the customers never came, we would not be here today. So, this 10th-anniversary celebration is dedicated to our customers. We want to say big. Thank you to them.” From a humble beginning, first as a provision store in a market, in Isolo, Lagos, Prince Ebeano Supermarket continues to walk towards its vision, which is “to become the most preferred retail chain store in Nigeria and in West Africa, as we establish more one-stop retail stores to meet the daily needs of our customers, by supplying them quality products in a friendly, courteous and professional environment.” The supermarket’s unique offering includes the village markets, where customers can get fresh farm produce, and seasoned seafood like crayfish, stockfish, dried fish, and food items like palm oil, garri, local seasoning, as well as other ingredients, to make soups like white soup, or afang or kpegiri. The section has become irresistible to shoppers, who appreciate the one-stop shopping for all their needs. “Customer is always king at Prince Ebeano Supermarket, and for us, going the extra mile to provide a variety of quality products and services to meet their daily needs is a task that must be done,” said Kossi. At 10, the Supermarket has every reason to celebrate, even as it continues to innovate and to live up to its claims of offering the widest variety of quality products and services at unbeatable prices, while also offering a variety of discounts.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .