Controversial TV host, Wendy Williams has slammed the Duchess of Sussex, Meghan Markle for allegedly “trying to garner sympathy”. This is coming after 38-year-old Markle opened up about the struggle and difficulties of living in the public eye. Markle and her husband, Prince Harry in a recent television documentary,  titled Harry & Meghan: An African Journey, which aired on ITV on Sunday, October 20. opened up about the royal life. Speaking about her marriage to Prince Harry, Markle admitted that her life has been a struggle and that “not many people ask if I’m OK.” Also speaking about her British friends warning her against the marriage, she said they were happy for her when she was dating him because she was happy but warned her saying that the “tabloids will destroy your life.” Wendy Williams and Meghan Markle However, 55-year-old Williams is ripping into Markle during Tuesday’s edition of her show, The Wendy Williams Show. Williams suggested that Markle is lying about her British friends warning her about the marriage to Prince Harry. Williams said: “Meghan, nobody feels sorry for you. You knew exactly what you were doing. And I applaud her plot-ation on the royal situation. But please, don’t try to garner sympathy from us. You knew what you were doing.” The talk show host then offered a blunt tip to Markle. “Don’t be surprised that the paparazzi are everywhere, of course, because you’re now a royal.” Williams then suggested that since Harry and Meghan won’t be King and Queen, they should move to the US and split their time between the United States, England and “a hut in Africa”. She continued: “I like them, I really do like them, but her? There’s something about her. You know what I’m saying? Williams and one of the show’s producers, Suzanne also brought up Markle’s past revealing that the former Suits actress once expressed interest in joining Williams’ show as a runway model and fashion expert. By the time the show was ready to book her, Markle had become engaged. “Meghan, don’t be surprised that the paparazzi are everywhere, of course, because you’re now a royal. They weren’t following you when you were on Suits – we didn’t even know who you were, except when you came for employment here at Wendy, and wanted to be one of our runway models.” Watch Williams slam Meghan in the video below, starting from the 4:14 mark.  Markle and Harry are currently embroiled in legal action against various tabloids in response to their publication of Markle’s private correspondence and alleged hacking of Harry’s phone.