 [FILES] Logo of Arsenal Football Club. (Photo by Aytac Unal/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images)  The finalists were selected from across Africa with Ukandu making the final cut from all the several coaches who put in for the programme. Ukandu and her friends provide young people with an opportunity to develop football and life skills at Help The Talent Academy, having completed phase three of the Premier Skills Coach Educators Course, (an initiative by the English Premier League and British Council) in 2015. She coaches boys and girls aged five to 16 and, if she wins the training session with Arsenal Football Development, she will organise a community coach training session on her return home to share her knowledge and experiences. Male coaches, who made the final list include, Bakit Isaac Agogo from Gulu, Uganda, Feisal Abdi Hassan from Nairobi, Kenya, Luis Alejandro Castañeda Vargas from Bogotá, Colombia and Samuel Taylor from Accra, Ghana. Female coaches include Beldine Lilian Achieng Odemba from Nairobi, Kenya, Joan Nabisenke from Kampala, Uganda, Vivian Johana Pirateque Garzón from Bogotá, Colombia. The eight finalists will now compete in a public vote on www.futurestars.worldremit.com for the chance to attend a personalised training programme with Arsenal Football Development coaches in London – sponsored by WorldRemit. The Managing Director Middle East & Africa at WorldRemit, Andrew Stewart said: “Our business is all about making it easier for our customers to send money home to support their communities. Together with Arsenal, we set up the Future Stars programme to recognise football coaches within these communities who are dedicated to supporting and lifting up others.” On his part, Head Coach at Arsenal Football Development, Simon McManus said: “Through our community initiatives in London and abroad, we work hard to promote greater diversity in football and positively impact the lives of young people through sport.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .