ASAP Rocky Opens Up About His Sex Addiction | PHOTO: Twitter American rapper and model Rakim Athelaston Mayers, known professionally as ASAP Rocky has revealed in a new interview that he is a sex addict. The 31 year-old musician said he became addicted to sex at junior high school and that he had his first orgy aged 13 – below the legal age of consent, TMZ reports. The admission came during an interview with Power 105.1 DJ Angie Martinez on her show, Untold Stories of Hip Hop, in which he said threesomes are “normal to him.” In a preview clip, he said he’s always been a “horny kid”, but Angie reminded him there’s a difference between being “horny” and being a “sex addict”. ASAP however insisted that he is an ‘addict’ although it is unclear whether or not this is a professional diagnosis. Angie asked him: “Are you capable of a monogamous relationship?” to which he hesitated before replying: “Yes, of course!” ASAP Rocky Opens Up About His Sex Addiction | PHOTO: Twitter  But talking about being addicted to sex, he said: “These are things that people like to stay away from, that they don’t like to admit. “I can’t be embarrassed about it. I wear my heart on my sleeve. I won’t do nothing that I’m not proud speaking of.’ “So they get with a guy like me – they know I don’t want to break their hearts or nothing. And why not? Let’s smoke some good weed in the teepee and have a fun time!” The music star once told Esquire why he needed a $100k saying: “I need it because I have a lot of orgies at my house with some very close female companions… “Yeah man, lot of orgies. I’ve photographed and documented many of them. The women that I’m around are into that free-spirited s**t like me. “Usually, guys are insecure with working, successful women, they can’t handle it when it’s on the other foot, you know? So they get with a guy like me – they know I don’t want to break their hearts or nothing.” ASAP previously dated Kendall Jenner – he’s also been linked to Rihanna, Chanel Iman, Rita Ora, and Iggy Azalea.