Activist and convener of EndSARS movement Segun Awosanya has been accused of making defamatory statements against a member of Nigeria’s House of Representatives. Wole Olanipekun Chambers, lawyers to Abdulmumin Jubrin, an All Progressive Congress representing Kiru/Bebeji Federal Constituency in Kano State, said Awosanya made libellous and defamatory publications against their clients on twitter. On October 17, Segalink in a tweet thread alleged that Jubrin has “17 bank accounts local and foreign despite signing a CCB form that he had no foreign account.” “I showed the world documents and modus of siphoning money from MDAs after appropriation, till date @officialEFCC is mute,” Segalink tweeted. “Is section 7(1) impotent against his likes? Is this not an advanced form of yahoo right within the core of public office? “So with all the budget and their new building their boss is using to strengthen institution, they are powerless against real economic and financial crimes?” he added. However, Wole Olanipekun Chambers denied such of its client. It said Jubrin has “unequivocally and emphatically denied the allegations contained in your tweets as untrue, unfounded, unwarranted representing, at best poorly drafted fiction meant to reduce his estimation in the eyes of well-meaning people.” The law chamber however gave Segalink 14 days ultimatum to retract the tweet on his twitter account. It also added that Segalink under same ultimatum to publish “a public apology to our client to be issued vide your Twitter account @segalink and to be published for seven (7) consecutive days from the date of first publication.” “A sum of N3,000,000,000.00 (Three Billion Naira) as damages for the injury caused to our client by your said defamatory publications,” the law chamber listed as the third instruction for Segalink. It said otherwise “our further instruction is to commence proceedings against you for your defamatory publication against him.” In his reaction, Awosaya told The Guardian that his “lawyers will respond appropriately later today.” “There is no point making a media show of a civil litigation,” he added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .