 [FILES] Super Eagles at international friendly at the Stephen Keshi Stadium, Asaba. Photo/twitter/thenff  For instance, in the last Mundial in Russia, a lot of people fell in love with the Nigerian Super Eagles because of their jersey, which was regarded as the best and most beautifully designed. People from different countries bought and wore the jerseys at the World Cup simply because of the beauty of the design. However, in the process the jersey’s beauty also brought new followers and fame to the Super Eagles in Russia. Highlighting the power of sports during a recent facility tour of Barca Academy in Lagos, President, Whitehouse Football Club, Dr. Austin Eruotor, commended the selflessness and passionate approach of Blaugrana Group, the promoters of the Academy, not only in Nigeria, but the entire sub- Saharan Africa, for a strong quest and endurable zeal to change the football sphere of the country. Eruotor is convinced, that, like tourism, football is the new black gold, richer than the oil and gas sector, if fully and properly harnessed. He said the football horizon needs well maintained facilities, backed with friendly and inviting government policies, continuous grassroots development and monitoring, without harsh government interference and politics, among others, to serve as a variable pillar of a sustained economy. Dr. Eruotor, who is the president of the White House Group, said, “as a tourism expert, having travelled the world, and attended many international football fiestas, I have personally seen that we are over endowed with the talents we need to lead the black race if not the entire world.” He opined that the Barca Academy is with its activities and programmes, changing the way things are being done in Nigerian football sector. This, he added, the academy is doing by giving the youths the opportunities to be who they want to be, through scholarship. “We see sports legends like Pele, Mohammed Ali, Tiger Woods and the Williams sisters, who aside the economic wealth they attract, have also become a light to their individual countries. “With sports, a lot can be achieved, from character moulding, talent development, youth education, empowerment, leadership training and creating of opportunities. It aids all round national reorientation and development,” he said. Also speaking during the tour, chairman, Blaugrana Group International, Leslie Oghomienor appreciated the tremendous contributions of all stakeholders, especially the pioneer students, their parents, the robust Nigerian sports media, owners of various facilities, and the technical and other officials of the academy for their immense contributions, encouragement, motivation and support to the development of the centre. “We derive so much fulfillment and joy from what we are doing. And to us, wealth, no matter what form it comes to you, is best enjoyed, when shared for the good of those, whom nothing would be gotten from in return,” he explained. Oghomienor disclosed that the academy had completed arrangement to introduce full-fledged training courses and programmes for children who are interested to become goalkeepers, adding that the aim is to solve the current global scarcity of reliable shot stoppers. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .