Members of the BBOG campaign and mother of one of the Chibok girls. PHOTO: LUCY LADIDI-ATEKO The recent abduction of six students and two employees of Engravers College in Kaduna, on October 3, 2019, has been described as a continued failure by the Federal Government to secure, preserve and dignify citizens’ lives. Incapacity, apathy and failed leadership made the list of tags labelled against the President and the Federal Government, yesterday, as Nigerians marked Day 2000 of abduction of 276 schoolgirls from Government Girls’ Secondary School (GGSS), Chibok, Borno State, on April 14, 2014. Meanwhile, students and staffers of Engravers College have joined the list of Nigerians still missing, including Leah Sharibu, Alice Ngaddah, Grace Taku, her colleagues and many others. ”Amidst these tragedies, the reality is one in which the Chibok girls are supposedly represented by a government that repeatedly fails in its primary responsibility of the protection of lives. ”Disturbingly, the government appears to be at ease amidst the troubles of the land, only concerned about protecting a fake-reputation that offers its citizens no value,” the #BringBackOurGirls Movement, said during its collective procession held in Abuja, Lagos, New York & Washington, DC. The group also called on local and state governments to accelerate actions necessary to bringing back the rest of the Chibok girls, including Leah Sharibu and others, especially the schoolchildren, to their distressed families. One of the conveners, Aisha Yesufu lamented the girls were forced to suffer unimaginable horrors by enemies of humanity and their families. ”This nightmare continues to be the shame of a nation and an open sore that threatens to become ingrained within the darkest parts of our collective history. How can we have continued this way?” Florence Ozor, a member of Abuja arm of the movement, said. So far, from the 276 girls abducted in April 2014, 57 escaped, four found, 103 released, four infants found with recovered girls, 19 parents dead and 112 Chibok girls still with the abductors. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .