Former minister of Education Obiageli Ezekwesili Friday said Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari is making governance in the country look more difficult than it is in reality. “Governance of our country Nigeria is undoubtedly a complex and tough task but let’s be honest with our Buhari and collectively let him know that it is definitely not as hard as he makes it,” Ezekwesili said in a tweet. “There are Nigerians like me who can do 1000 times better than this.” Ezekwesili, a presidential candidate in Nigeria’s last election, opined that good governance remains a puzzle for Buhari. She alleged that the president has refused to see that the country currently “wobbles badly” under his administration. “I don’t know how they fail to see the Reality (not perception) of a systematic governmental failure that stares every truthful Nigerian today,” Ezekwesili said. Ezekwsili, a co-convener Bring Back Our Girls group, said Buhari failed his promise to Nigerians after he said he will not claim  to “have defeated Boko Haram without rescuing the #ChibokGirls & all other innocent persons held hostage by insurgents” in his 2015 inaugural address. She said the reality that Boko Haram still have some of the girls in captive was a proof for her claim. 276 Chibok school girls were kidnapped four years ago from their school dormitory on April 14, 2018, in Chibok town, Borno State. Fifty-seven of them escaped while being taken away, three others were found or rescued by the military. On October 13, 2016, 21 of the girls were freed after the Swiss government and International Committee of Red Cross brokered a deal between Boko Haram and the Nigerian government. On May 6, 2017, the Nigerian government said the 82 of the schoolgirls were freed in exchange for some suspected members of the terrorist group held by the authorities. “Our security agencies have taken back these girls, in exchange for some Boko Haram suspects held by the authorities,” presidential spokesman Garba Shehu said in a statement without being specific on the number of the terrorists freed. Two years after, about 112 of the Chibok girls are still in captivity despite all assurances by the Nigerian government that they would be rescued and reunited with their families.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .