 the collapsed building  The incident occurred at about 11:45 p.m. on Monday during a downpour at Layin Yankoba in Angwan Rogo area of Jos local council. An eyewitness who pleaded for anonymity disclosed that there were six persons in the building, adding that three of them who were of the same parent died before they could be evacuated from the rumbles while another three occupants of the building sustained injuries and are now receiving treatment at the Plateau State Specialist Hospital. The eyewitness further narrated that in the course of the heavy rain, which lasted for two hours, it washed away a building on a hilltop and the debris fell on the house of the victims at the basement of the hill, leading to the collapse of the building. According to him, “the heavy rain washed away one of the uncompleted buildings on top of the hill in the area. The debris of the building cascading from the top fell on the building of Haliru at the bottom of the hill leading to the collapse of their building. Three persons were killed and another three sustained injuries,” he added. Those who lost their lives were simply identified as Mohammed, Iliya and Haliru, who was the owner of the building and of the same parents, while those who sustained injuries were Halilu’s two children and wife. The state’s Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Deputy Superintendent Matthias Terna Tyopev, confirmed the incident. An official of the Red Cross coordinating Anguwan Rogo community, Mahmud Adamu Abdullahi, also confirmed the incident. He said: “Upon getting the information, we rushed to the scene. We can’t confirm how many are dead so far, but I know we have rescued three persons, two men and a woman who sustained injuries and we have taken them to the hospital.” Another eyewitness and resident of the area who didn’t want his name mentioned, said: “It was a flat building, and later a decking was constructed on top, with another room built on it. It suddenly collapsed in the early hours of yesterday.” He said two persons – a man and a woman, instantly died, while another man died later. “We have observed funeral prayers for the three dead persons,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .