Father of 14-year-old Qudus Anifowoshe, who was murdered and dismembered at Igbogbo Agunfoye Ire, Ikorodu area of Lagos State, Taofeek Anifowose, has called on the state government and the Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu, to bring the killers of his son to book. While speaking with our correspondent yesterday, Taofeek stated that Qudus was last seen with a 17-year-old Daniel Amme, a student of Olabisi Onabanjo University (OOU) who lives with his grandmother and his son’s mutilated body was found in an uncompleted building behind Amme’s compound three days later. He explained that Qudus was declared missing on the evening of October 14, at about 7:00p.m. The boy had left home two hours prior to the time he was declared missing. “He had just returned from his Arabic lesson that normally takes place on our street at Igbogbo Agunfoye Ire, Anifowose Street, Ikorodu. We were told that Qudus was sent back from his Arabic school to retrieve his Quran, but never returned until his body was found behind a house belonging to Amen Daniel on October 18. After continuous search for our son, a resident informed us that he saw him with Amem. A search team was immediately put in place to follow up on the lead, and on October 18, they searched his house and found Qudus slippers in the compound. They proceeded to search the house but nothing was found in the apartments. “The team then searched the compound, on getting to the backyard of Daniel’s house, they saw bloodstains on the wall. It also looked like something was forcefully thrown behind the house. When they checked behind the fence, it was an already decaying dead body of our son. His tongue, heart and manhood were already removed. We also found out that chemical had been poured on the body of the deceased to avoid a stench odour in the neighborhood.” Anifowoshe added that the police at Igbogbo arrested Amem and his grandmother on Saturday but the grandmother was released on Sunday. “The case was later transferred to Panti Police Station. We went for the follow up of the case when I received a call that the DPO at Igbogbo, Babalola Sarafa, brought Amem sister’s home to take the suspect’s school document from the house and they came with truck. But the residents resisted them, as they shouted at them. The government should come to my aid so that my son will not die in vain, the culprits should be made to face the wrath of the law to serve as a deterrent to evil perpetrators in Ikorodu,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .