The leadership of Unity Schools Old Students Association (USOSA) has called on its members in President Muhammadu Buhari’s cabinet to make a difference in the country’s political history by fostering good governance. USOSA is the umbrella body of alumni associations of the 104 Federal Unity Schools in the country. The Publicity Secretary of USOSA, Sotonye Edohore, in a statement yesterday, congratulated Buhari on the composition of the Federal Executive Council (FEC), which has some members of the association. The statement, which was issued against the backdrop of the association’s coming Annual General Meeting (AGM) in Kaduna State, quoted the President-General, Lawrence Wilbert, as telling the officials to live up to expectations in ensuring good governance, considering the training they got from the unity schools. “We congratulate the president for assembling a team to deliver on the mandate of the government. We hope that the team immediately gets to work with the right focus, passion and commitment to deliver on the president’s promise of prosperity. “USOSA is glad that four members of the association made it to the FEC, namely Senator Godswill Akpabio from Akwa Ibom State (FGC, Port Harcourt), Hajiya Sadiya Farouq from Zamfara State (FGGC, Gusau), Alhaji Suleiman Adamu from Jigawa State (FGC, Kano) and Dr. Ramatu Aliyu from Kogi State (FGC, Minna). We congratulate these worthy ambassadors and hope that they will truly represent the values of USOSA in FEC,” the statement read in part. Wilbert stated that the 2019 AGM would discuss contemporary issues in Nigeria and the role USOSA needs to play in building a modern and prosperous country. “Usosans across the world will converge on Federal Government College (FGC), Malali, Kaduna State, on October 11 and 12, 2019 to discuss the theme, ‘The Role of USOSA in Enthroning Good Governance and National Development.’ “We enjoin all Usosans across the world to align with the leadership of their national associations to fully participate at the AGM,” he added. According to him, the AGM will include a plenary on Saturday, October 12. “USOSA, in its position as the umbrella body for alumni associations of all Unity Schools, is perhaps Nigeria’s most important non-political, non-religious, cross-cultural advocacy group. Under its current leadership, it has set out a vision to be Nigeria’s most active policy advocacy group.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .