Nigeria’s former Commonwealth and Olympics boxer, Nestor Bolum will face a New Zealand fighter, Shiva Mishra for the World Boxing Foundation (WBF) Australia/Asia Crown Light weight category on November 16 in Sydney, Australia. The fight, which is coming up some weeks after Nigerian-born New Zealand based UFC fighter, Israel Adesanya, conquered Robert Whittaker in the middleweight battle in front of his home fans in Melbourne, is already generating interest among boxing followers in that part of the globe. Bolum is making a comeback to the ring after spending two years in retirement.In November 2016, Bolum made big headlines in Australia, where he defeated his challenger, Apichet Siakane of Thailand, on points. This time, Bolum, one of Nigeria’s last men standing at the Athens 2004 Olympic Games, will do battle against the New Zealand boxer, Shiva Mishra for the WBF Australia/Asia Crown Light weight category. Bolum told The Guardian from his base in Sydney yesterday that the fight would take place in Sydney, and is being promoted by the Neutral Corner Fight Promotion, property of Mr. Paul Nasiri Nicolas and Afif Mikael of AMS Scaffolding in Sydney, Australia is sponsoring the flight. The Guardian learnt that the World Boxing Foundation (WBF) in Australia is a different body from the World Boxing Federation (WBF) in the United States. The fight against Apichet Siakane of Thailand in 2016 was the first for Bolum since he quit active boxing since January 2011. He fought in the Bantamweight 54kg class at Athens 2004 Olympics, where Thailand’s Worapoj Petchkoomin edged him out in the quarterfinal. Bolum, a former Nigerian Air Force officer, who hails from Ughelli, Delta State, grabbed a silver medal for Nigeria at the Abuja 2003 All African Games, and was a semifinalist at the Commonwealth Games in Melbourne in 2006, where he lost to eventual winner, Akhil Kumar. He took his professional boxing career to Canada some years ago before relocating to Sydney, Australia. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .