– Gets N1m Cash Prize, Brand New Car The prestigious Pelican Hall, Pelican International Hotel, Chevy View Estate, Chevron Drive, Lekki, Lagos, was the place to be last Saturday as guests gathered for the grand finale of the entrepreneur Reality TV Show dubbed The Young CEO. Conceived as a platform to promote and support young entrepreneurs, who are doing great in their business ventures, the fiercely contested show began on September 14 with a grand opening, with 25 rising entrepreneurs drawn from diverse fields nationwide. However, as the show progressed, only five contestants made it to the grand finale. As expected, the evening witnessed a parade of stars, experts, business moguls and members of the media, who witnessed the emergence of a new young CEO. The row call of attendance was sauced with the presence of one of the official headline sponsors, Prince Christopher Nebe, MD/CEO of Phamatex Industries Ltd, who stormed the venue with senior executive and CEOs of other corporate sponsors such as AfriOne, Green Lotto Nigeria, NTEL, OHWow Popcorn, Silvertine International Autos, Dabinchi Global Limited, Delaquine Services, Mavin GRANDPA, President of Artiste Managers Association in Nigeria AMAN, Mr Akinpelu, Tochukwu Micheal, CEO Asandrea Fashion, Jossy Vasachy, Chita Agu Johnson, Nollywood Actress, TV Host and Producer, Esther White Bassey, Multiple Award Winning Teen Actress and Producer, families and friends of the hub-mates. The Judges, David Agu, CEO Entrepreneur Africa, Chisom Egwuatu, CEO The Vain Stores and Temi Ajibewa, Author, Speaker and Business Coach had tough time picking the winner at the event hosted by Bimbo Abayomi, CEO Messenger Network, Teniola Akinpelu, CEO Afrikan Island Fashion, Nonye Chidolue, Founder CHEGCAF. The high point of the evening was the formal unveiling of the winner of the grand prize. Based on the result, Chidera Vanessa Akamelu beat other contenders to clinch the grand prize of N1 Million cash and a car. Meanwhile, Josephine Chisom Okonkwo, CEO Odettegrand, Kester Gfella, CEO Light House Entertainment emerged as first and second runner ups and got an all-expense-paid trip to Dubai for 1 week, and a business tour with John Oho, CEO FXTicari INC, Mabel Christian, CEO Belluxury Emporium. A thriving entrepreneur and founder of an online store, Trendy Closet By Dera, Chidera is currently studying French as part of her leap towards taking her brand to the world. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .