St. Anne’s School, Ibadan is an amalgamation of two schools which were founded by the CMS mission for the education of the Girl child. CMS Girls Seminary, Lagos was founded in 1869 to provide secondary education, for the first time in the country, for the Girl child. The 1870 prospectus of the school stated as its objective, the nurturing of “good wives, good mother and leading lights of society”. In 1950, when the Broad Street, Lagos site of the school became too small for expansion, the CMS mission transferred the school to Ibadan and merged it with KUDETI GIRLS SCHOOL (founded 1899), another CMS mission school that was located in a vast forest area in Molete, Ibadan. The new name of St. Anne’s School was then given to the School. From its inception in 1869 and 1899, it has indeed produced leading lights of Nigerian society from the North, East and West, as evidenced in the Alumni anniversary publication titled “TRAILBLAZERS”. It has pioneered in the production of female Scientists, Professionals, Bureaucrats, Teachers, Jurists, Artists, Entrepreneurs and Academicians. All of them distinguished and noted for integrity and love of country. The Ladies who are profiled hereunder are examples: Lady Oyinkansola Abayomi (Nee Ajasa) LADY OYINKANSOLA ABAYOMI (Nee AJASA) 6 March 1897 – 19 March 1990. She was a passionate activist for the well-being of women, she was active in the Girls’ Guides movement where she later became the President and also founded the Nigerian Women’s Party. She was active in the education of women and girls in Nigeria and advocated and raised funds for the founding of Queen’s College, Lagos. She was knighted by the Queen of England in 1954. Professor (Mrs) Bolanle Awe (Nee Fajembola) PROFESSOR (MRS) BOLANLE AWE (Nee FAJEMBOLA) Born on 28 January 1933, Professor Awe is a woman with multiple career paths as a historian, an educator, a teacher, an administrator and a social advocate for women. LADY Kofoworola Ademola (Nee Moore) LADY KOFOWOROLA ADEMOLA (Nee MOORE) 21 May 1913 – 15 May 2002. MBE, MFR. She was the first African female to attend Oxford University. Anike Agbaje-Williams Mrs. ANIKE AGBAJE-WILLIAMS Mrs Anike Agbaje-Williams was born in Abeokuta on the 23rd of October, 1936. She was the first female TV Broadcaster. Lady Kehinde Kamson Mrs KEHINDE KAMSON (Nee ADELAJA) Mrs Kehinde Kamson is one of the pioneers in the fast food sector and an outstanding female business leader in Nigeria. She is best known as the Founder and CEO of Sweet Sensation Confectionery Limited.