 NASFAT  Onike, who spoke at the inaugural prayer session of NASFAT Outreach at Dolphin Central Mosque, Lagos, said Islam is not against discussing thought-provoking and critical questions. He said Islam only condemns provocative words while trying to get answers to knotty issues of faith. According to Onike, scripturally, there are many instances where statements that provoke thoughts are made in the Holy Quran. For instance, the Quran says: “See ye the seed that ye sow in the ground? Is it you who makes it grow, or are We the grower? Were it Our Will, We could crumble it to dry powder, and ye would be left in wonderment. (56:63-65) Have you considered the water that you drink? Is it you that send it down from the clouds, or are We the senders? If We willed, We could make it bitter, so why are you not grateful? (56:68-70) And have you seen the fire that you ignite? Is it you who produced its tree, or are We the producer? (56:71-72) “Are those who know equal to those who do not know?” Only they will remember [who are] people of understanding”. He, therefore, urged the members to seize the opportunity of the weekly Asalatu to ask any thought-provoking question on seemingly confusing, disturbing or unclear concepts of Islam from the scholars who will engage them in a comprehensive discussion of these issues without going astray. According to him, the society decided to open an outreach in that axis in order to give the community and its environs the opportunity of having intellectual interactions with Islamic scholars, communicate with their creator and further assist in advancing the mission of NASFAT. “To develop an enlightened Muslim society nurtured with the true understanding of Islam for Spiritual development and welfare of mankind,” he said. Onike said NASFAT, having been doing similar socio-economic and religious activities in over 350 locations across the globe, need to extend the benefits to those who are far from its base. Making reference to the scripture, he said that the counseling and advice should start from those close to someone. He assures the community that each segment regardless of age, sex and tribe would find a platform within the society for individual intellectual and spiritual development, which he termed “Sunday intellectual and spiritual vaccination”.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .