Sarkodie (right) receiving his award The 2019 BET Hip Hop Awards brought together the hottest names in hip-hop to the biggest weekend in Atlanta, GA on Saturday, 5 October 2019, for its annual taping. Comedian and Rapper Lil Duval hosted this year’s awards from The Cobb Energy Centre. The award ceremony was internationally simulcast live on BET Africa (DStv channel 129). This year, BET International launched a new category, Best International Flow, for the 2019 BET Hip Hop Awards to honour artistes from around the world and Ghanaian superstar Sarkodie took home top honours as the recipient of the inaugural award. For this category, Sarkodie was nominated alongside Nigeria’s Falz, South Africa’s Nasty C, UK’s Ghetts and Little Simz, French artiste Kalash and Canada’s Tory Lanez. Alex Okosi, Executive Vice President and Managing Director, BET International and Viacom International Media Networks Africa said, “On behalf of BET International, we couldn’t be more proud of Sarkodie for making history as the winner of our first-ever “Best International Flow” honour. Now more than ever, music from around the world is gaining popularity in mainstream culture, and by launching this category we’re honoured to give talented artists like Sarkodie a platform to achieve global success.” Furthermore, J.Cole snagged three wins for ‘Lyricist of the Year,’ ‘Sweet 16: Best Featured Verse’ for his verse on 21 Savage’s “A Lot,” and ‘Impact Track’ for his single “Middle Child.” Cardi B took home two wins for ‘Made-You-Look Award (Best Hip-Hop Style)’ and the visuals for “Money” took home ‘Best Hip-Hop Video.’  Travis Scott took home his first win in the ‘Video Director of the Year’ and ‘Album of the Year’ categories.  Newcomer Lil Nas X also takes two wins for ‘Single of the Year’ and ‘Best Collabo, Duo or Group’ for “Old Town Road.” The “Houston Hottie” Megan Thee Stallion, kicked off the night live from the boat performing a medley of Hot Girl Summer, featuring Juicy J, and Cash **it featuring the night’s Best New Hip-Hop Artiste winner, DaBaby, before taking home two wins of her own for Hot Ticket Performer and Best Mixtape. Continuing to be the hottest night in hip-hop, performances included Saweetie performing My Type, and bringing out surprise guest Petey Pablo and Lil Jon who performed Freek-A-Leek and Get Low. Rick Ross hit the stage performing a medley that includes a special appearance by T-Pain. DaBaby performed Intro from his debut album Kirk before bringing out Offset for Babysitter; later he joined Lil Baby for a performance of Baby. Chance The Rapper, did a powerful performance of Sun Come Down. Rapsody, put on for the queens with an inspiring performance of Nina and Serena. YBN Cordae got the crowd woke along with Anderson Paak performing RNP.