An Ikeja Sexual Offences and Domestic Violence Court, Lagos State yesterday heard how a police officer, Andy Eghobamien, lured a nine-year-old girl into his apartment and defiled her on several occasions. The child, a primary five pupil, told the court that Eghobamien, on one occasion after the abuse, hid her under his bed when her elder sister was desperately searching for her. The 40-year-old officer, who is standing trial in a one-count charge of defilement, allegedly committed the offence on June 6, 2018 at No. 73, Imam Street, Lagos. The pupil, while being led in evidence by the state prosecutor, Inumidun Solarin, said the defendant lured her into his room by giving her N200 to buy milk for him. Testifying before Justice Sybil Nwaka, the child said: “I am the last child of my family. I have a brother and two sisters. I am in primary five and I attend African Bethel School, Ikorodu Town.” When asked if she knew why she was in court, she replied: “Yes I do. This place is called a court and I came here to say everything that happened to me and also tell the truth. I know Brother Andy (the defendant). He is our neighbour who lives at the backyard of our house. He is popularly known as officer. On that day, he called me when I got back from school and sent me on an errand to buy milk and gave me N200. “I bought the milk and when I returned, he asked me to bring it inside his room. He then said I should drop the milk on the table and sit down. When I sat down, he now told me to lie on the bed and remove my pant. He now put his penis in my bum bum (she demonstrated by pointing at her private part). After that he asked me to hide under the bed when my elder sister called my name. “One of our neighbour, Chioma, entered his room to buy recharge card for him, though she didn’t see me, I saw her from under the bed. Officer told me to pretend like nothing happened and I should pass through the backyard gate. My sister now later found me and asked where I went to and I lied. I told her that I went to my friend’s house but she insisted that I take her to my friend’s house. “Then I started begging her not to beat me, that I was inside officer’s room. My sister now beat me and reported to my dad, who was very angry after my sister told him what happened. When my mummy came back from the market where she sells Abacha (African salad), my sister reported me again. This time my mummy threatened to kill me if I don’t tell her what happened.  I became afraid and told her the truth. “Immediately my mum called all her brothers and they came to our house the following morning and took us to Amukoko Police Station to report. It was after we made a report at the station that the police came and arrested Brother Andy,” she said. “How many times has he done such to you (sexual intercourse)?” The prosecutor asked. And she replied: “Many times. I can’t really count.”
While being cross-examined by the Defence Counsel, Mr. M.L. Ezomo, the child said the reason why she did not report the abuse was because the policeman had threatened to kill her if she told anyone.Justice Sybil Nwaka adjourned the case until Oct. 30 for continuation of trial.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .