 Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State.  “They can also invest in entertainment, fashion and other opportunities that will meet global standards and improve tourism business.“As part of making the investment climate more friendly, our Rescue Administration is putting in place infrastructures such as roads and street lights on major and feeder roads in the state capital. “We are equally beautifying roundabouts with the support of corporate organisations,” he added. He assured that his administration was ready to do more in line with its commitment to providing a conducive atmosphere for smooth operations and partnership with private sector under Public Private Partnership arrangements. The governor said the trade fair had undoubtedly provided a window to showcase the beauty, people and endowments of the state. According to him, the fair also serves as a forum for dialogue and exchange of ideas between producers and consumers of goods and services. He welcomed and thanked all businessmen and women, corporate bodies and exhibitors that have come from far and near to participate in the event. Lalong said as part of efforts to sustain the fair, the government would build a permanent Jos Trade Fairground once was a place was identified by the Plateau Chamber of Commerce Industries Mines and Agriculture (PLACCIMA). Ms Bolcit Barshep, Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer,  Anista Marketing and Events, the firm that organised the fair in collaboration with PLACCIMA, said the event was another opportunity “ to savour the great moment of our interaction through various trade exhibitions, cross cultural relations, entertainment and other forms of engagements”. “Counting on the successes of previous editions, it has become imperative that we build on that in order to achieve greater success as it is evident in this year’s edition and to put the name of Plateau once again on the high amongst states to be reckoned with. “The choice of the theme for the Jos Trade fair 2019 which is “Trade Fairs, a Platform to Promote the Tourism Potentials on the Plateau” is apt as this will open doors for the building of a stronger economy for our dear state,” Barshep said. She also said that the event was unique in that for the first time, it was featuring a Simon Bako Lalong Made in Plateau Exhibition Pavilion with about 35 MSMEs fully sponsored by the Plateau government. According to her, ANISTA marketing has in addition to the daily business activities, rolled out its daily evening social events with a regular well attended musical concert. The concert, she said, would serve as an avenue to tap from the raw talents that abound in the state, thereby creating an avenue for them to meet with stakeholders in the industry. Mr Bulbs Dareng, PLACCIMA President, thanked the state government for creating an enabling environment for businesses to thrive.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .