 Ojuola Asuquo, Cobhams Asuquo’s Wife opened up in a youtube interview about how her son’s blindness has made her closer to God. Speaking in a video interview, she narrated how she discovered her son is blind after four months. According to her, she went to the hospital for check-ups and was told her son “is not following”. This made her scared and confused as her doctor outside the country told her something different. This led to a series of tests both in and outside the country where it was confirmed that he, (her son) can not see. This generated mixed feelings in her, she found the situation quite unbelievable and “it feels like you are not getting answers”. The doctors could not place what exactly is wrong as the physiology of her son is perfect. Hence, she could not find solutions as the problem was not clear. At the point where she was not getting any answers, she totally lost it. She was in fear and started questioning herself, she felt she probably did not pray enough or was negligent. The experience made her question her spiritual strength. However, despite it all, she believes she is now going through a journey and she is making progress which is why she can share this story in the open. Cobhams Asuquo is a Nigerian-born songwriter/music producer/singer who started his academic training as a lawyer. Previously signed to Sony/ATV UK publishing as a songwriter, Cobhams formed his first music production and label company Cobhams Asuquo Music Production (CAMP) in 2008. In 2016 he started Vintage Gray Media. Vintage Gray media currently produces “The Cobhams Top 12”, a music countdown show aimed at showcasing new music releases from both Famous and upcoming artistes. On the first of January 2015, Cobhams released his first music video for “Ordinary People”. He has also officially released 5 other singles – “Do the Right Thing” featuring Bez (2015), Christmas song “Star of Wonder” (2015), Boosit ft. Falz (2016), “The Other Room” ft. Ugovinna (2016) and “Adore” ft. Lauretta Cookey and Fome Peters (2016). Cobhams Asuquo is blind. He has released different interviews on this and how he has been able to live through life despite his blindness.  