 Earlier today, President Buhari departed Sochi after a successful Russia-Africa Economic Summit with other world leaders in Russia. Photo: TWITTER/NIGERIAGOV<br />  “Our government will protect Nigerians at home, and abroad,” the President told a gathering of students and professionals in Sochi, towards the conclusion of his three-day visit to Russia, where he participated in the Russia-Africa Summit, which had about 40 Heads of State and governments. Meanwhile, the President returned to Abuja, yesterday, after actively participating in the three-day Russia – Africa Summit in Sochi, Russia. The presidential aircraft conveying the president and some members of his entourage landed at the Presidential Wing of the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja at about 5:25 p.m. While in Sochi, Buhari, on October 23, met with Russian President, Vladimir Putin, where the duo agreed to put Nigeria-Russia relations on a fast track, and pursue the completion of all abandoned projects initiated by both countries. The two leaders, who made the pledge at a bilateral meeting held on the sidelines of the Summit, also agreed to start new infrastructural projects and expand trade and investment, security and military cooperation. According to a statement made by both leaders, Nigeria and Russia will work together to improve efficiency of Nigeria’s oil sector, “which is the backbone of the economy.” Buhari, according to a statement signed by Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, said the Nigeria Diaspora Commission, headed by Abike Dabiri-Erewa, was established to ensure a forward and backward link for all Nigerians living outside the country by catering for their safety and needs, and providing a platform for many who would like to contribute to the development of the country with their skills, knowledge and resources. “Don’t forget your home,’” the President said, advising all Nigerians living in foreign countries to be law-abiding and work very hard to excel in their studies and chosen careers. The President assured that his administration will always be people-focused, pointing out that all the programmes of the administration had been tailored to buoy the economy and protect the poor and vulnerable. “We must create jobs to meet the growing demands in the country, and we are looking at agriculture already,” he added. President Buhari noted that the government also introduced Social Investment Programmes to directly impact the lives of poor people. “Yesterday I met with Russian President, Vladimir Putin, and we discussed some of the areas of shared interest which includes pushing for diversification of the economy in agriculture and solid minerals. Incidentally, we have a lot in common. “Russia exports crude oil like Nigeria, and it is the second-largest producer of gas in the world. A lot can be learned from their journey. We will collaborate in agriculture, oil, and gas, and solid minerals exploration,” he said. The Nigerian Ambassador, Prof Steve Davies Ugbah, said the President had restored the pride of all Nigerians by consistently meeting with citizens in countries he visited. In his remarks, the President of Nigerians in Diaspora Organisation (NIDO) in Russia, Chukwujeku Ejike Sam-Fester, said President Buhari demonstrated a high sense of maturity and patriotism by visiting South Africa on October 3, 2019, to discuss issues relating to attacks on foreigners, including Nigerians, in the country. “We are proud of you for taking that step to reconcile not only Nigeria and South Africa, but the entire continent,” he said, am-Fester urged the government to extend gestures like the National Identity Card, BVN, 10-year validity passport to them and encourage more participation in governance by inviting professionals in foreign countries to provide services. In her remarks, a Nigeria female student in Russia, Kadija Mohammed Babanzara, commended the President for consistency in the payment of bursaries to students. “Since you came into power, our bursaries are paid in full and timely. We are grateful,” she said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .