• Sets up advisory council to strengthen PPP
• Ogun anchor borrowers’ project gets monitoring team
Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun has reinstated the Deputy Director in the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Mr. Olusoji Majekodunmi, who was sacked by the immediate past administration of Governor Ibikunle Amosun under questionable circumstances. Also reinstated was former Chairman, Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT), Ogun State Chapter, Mr. Dare Ilekoya, who was retired compulsorily for infractions during the 2017 World Teachers’ Day celebration.Abiodun, who announced the reinstatement during the 2019 World Teachers’ Day celebration held at the MKO Abiola Stadium, Kuto, Abeokuta, said the action was “to encourage teachers and also a right thing to do.” The governor said that his administration would continue to ensure that the rights of teachers were protected and called on teachers to be guided by the laws of the civil service.Abiodun noted that the celebration of the World Teachers’ Day is a key element of nation-building and a catalyst for the mental, physical, social and spiritual development of humanity.He, therefore, enjoined the teachers to double their efforts so as to achieve a better performance from students in the Senior School Certificate Examinations (SSCE) and other examinations. In another development, Ogun State Government has set up a business advisory council to ensure that the Public Private Partnership (PPP) agenda of the government yields the expected results.Abiodun said that the advisory council would enable the state set a clear standard of engagement applicable to all development partners. Meanwhile, in compliance with the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) guideline on Anchor Borrowers Programme, Ogun State steering committee has inaugurated a project management team to ensure successful implementation of the scheme.Special Adviser to the Governor on Agriculture, Dr. Adetunji Oredipe, who stated this during the inauguration, said the Project Management Team (PMT) would verify farmers and the sizes of the land, identify reputable agricultural input suppliers, as well as organise town hall meetings to agree on the economics of production of the crops. Oredipe said that the inauguration was in line with the CBN’s pre-requisite for the scheme, noting that the team would ensure timely distribution of funds and input for the farmers.He said the  team comprised representatives of all stakeholders, including participating financial institution, Anchors Agricultural Development Programme (Ministry of Agriculture), farmers and extension lead officers.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .