Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, Zubairu Muazu (middle) leading security groups on a sensitisation walk against cultism, gang violence and substance abuse. PHOTO: ADAKU ONYENUCHEYA • Cautions teenage girls to report sexual assault to the police 
As part of efforts to strengthen security in Lagos State, the Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu, led security groups on a sensitisation walk to seek public support in the fight against cultism, gang violence and substance abuse. The walk, which held at the weekend took off from Ikeja Club and ended at LTV, Agidingbi with officials from the Police Community Relations Committee (PCRC), Nigeria Policing Programme (NPP), Anti-Cultism Unit, Lagos State Neighbourhood Corp among other security groups, with the message ‘Nigeria youths say no to cultism, gang violence and drug abuse.’ The police boss said the walk seeks to sensitise the public on dangers of drug abuse and cultism, while soliciting their support to reduce crime in the state. The state chairman of PCRC, Kehinde Showemimo, said the committee will continue sensitising the youth to shun crime and drug abuse. Also speaking, the Lagos intervention officer of NPP, Ivy Basil Ofili, called on everyone to join in fighting crime in their immediate environment. The head, Anti-Cultism Unit, Lagos police command, CSP Uduak Udom, urged parents to pay close attention to their children’s activities in order to eschew them from joining cult groups. “Making available the necessities of life to the children should not be the end of it, but constantly checking up on what they do in our presence and absence is vital.” Meanwhile, concerned about the incessant reports of insecurity and vulnerability of the girl-child in society, a police officer has cautioned young girls to avoid walking alone at night except in groups or company of others. Lagbansa Divisional Police Officer (DPO), Supol Adaobi Okeafor, made the call at a teenage forum organized by Kiddies Mirror Initiative in Lagbansa, Ajah area of Lagos. Representing the DPO, Inspector Joy Otuh urged young girls to confide in the police on cases of sexual harassment and molestation. “There is a human rights desk in every police station, you can always report your case there if you feel you can’t confide in your parents because they are too harsh. The police are always there for you; don’t try to delay or correct the person assaulting you because it could cost you your life or truncate your education should it lead to pregnancy.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .