Seyi Makinde • To launch economic renaissance body, vigilance services
• Oyo Assembly invites FERMA reps over deplorable road Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has revealed details of the state’s security architecture, saying that the state is ready to launch the Oyo State Development Association for Socio-Economic Renaissance (OYODASER) and the State’s Vigilance Services. The governor, who stated this yesterday during a courtesy visit to his office by the Vigilance and Community Development Council (CDC), said the state was working round the clock to nip insecurity in the bud. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, quoted the governor as saying that the state security architecture was also linked to the emerging South-West security structure code-named Operation Amotekun. He said that the governor would soon launch the operation to complement internal security in the state. In a related vein, Oyo State Co-ordinator of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Mr. Kunle Yusuff (MON), yesterday said the development initiatives and welfarist approach of Makinde to governance were already attracting the attention of development partners. Yusuff stated this during a stakeholders’ meeting on the institutionalisation of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), held at the Head of Service Conference Room, Secretariat, Agodi, Ibadan. Also, the Special Adviser to the Governor on Economic Matters, Dr. Musbau Babatunde, who also spoke at the meeting, said that welfarist policies and integrity in governance of the Makinde-led administration had started achieving results in respect of the SDGs. In another development, the Oyo State House of Assembly has joined its voice to the ongoing protest by motorists and residents calling for the repair of the Oyo-Iseyin Road, as it invited the representatives of the Federal Roads Management Agency (FERMA) in the state. At its plenary yesterday, Adeola Bamidele, representing Iseyin/Itesiwaju State Constituency, noted that the alarming situation of the road justifies the ongoing protest and demanded urgent attention from the Oyo State Government. The Speaker, Adebo Ogundoyin, who lamented the state of Moniya-Iseyin and Oyo-Iseyin roads, said: “We are going to write FERMA representatives in Oyo State to know the state of things and how to repair the roads. Meanwhile, the state government has entered into partnership with the Nigerian Institute of Social and Economic Research (NISER) and Centre for Sustainable Development, University of Ibadan (UI) to institutionalise the four-point agenda of his administration with Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .