A group of automobile dealers in Lagos State has threatened to drag the Nigerian Customs Service (NCS), to court over alleged unlawful sealing of their business premises.
   
In a letter to the Comptroller General of NCS, through the law firm of Ubani & Co, the group condemned the September 30, 2019 raid and alleged sealing of their offices by customs officers, saying that the action of the agency was a demonstration of gross irresponsibility, unprecedented impunity and abuse of power.
   
They maintained that all the cars in their business premises were duly cleared and appropriate duties paid to the Federal Government.  Part of the letter, which also serves as a pre-action notice, reads: “We must state here with all sense of responsibility and patriotism that the action of Nigeria custom officers in this regard is a demonstration of gross irresponsibility, unprecedented impunity and abuse of power. “Though the Nigerian Customs & Excise Management Act gives you the power to examine, mark, seal and take account of any goods … in this case, you did not examine, mark, seal and take account of the particular vehicles identified as not being properly cleared, but rather sealed up the entire premises without any form of examination or inspection of papers. “This very act of yours has no protection under the Act, but smacks of impunity, illegality and flagrant abuse of executive power. No law under our law books, including the Customs & Excise Management Act, empowers you to take the steps you have taken in the manner you have taken it. “The action of the Nigerian Customs is not only lawless but very oppressive. The moment when Nigerian Government agencies elevate the pursuit of revenue above the right and welfare of the citizens, Nigeria is doomed, but God forbid that things degenerate to that level. “Take notice therefore that you have 14 days from the day you receive this letter to unseal all our Client’s members’ business premises to enable them to carry out their lawful businesses as Nigerian citizens.” The complainants lawyers therefore warned that after a period of 30 days from the date NCS receives the letter to pay a compensation of N10 billion for the severe hardship, suffering, embarrassment, loss of business, physical, mental and psychological torture and trauma its lawless and inconsiderate action has caused her clients and their families, they would be left with no other option than to seek redress through a competent court of law. When contacted, the NCS spokesman, Joseph Attah could neither confirm or deny receipt of the letter. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .