White beans, also known as white navy beans, offer extraordinary health benefits. They are loaded with antioxidants and provide a good supply of detoxifying molybdenum. They are also a good source of fiber and protein and produce alpha-amylase inhibitors which help regulate fat storage in the body. Some of the benefits of eating white beans include: Regulate body fat In addition to their gentle effect on blood sugar levels, white beans may provide weight loss benefits due their ability to produce alpha-amylase inhibitors. Alpha-amylase inhibitors are known to slow the absorption of carbohydrates (and thus the storage of energy as body fat) by inhibiting enzymes responsible for cutting starches into simpler sugars. Antioxidants supply White beans deliver a hefty supply of antioxidants, substances that fight off disease and help maintain optimum health. Antioxidants are believed to protect the cells in your body from free radicals, unstable molecules that damage cells. Ultimately, the damage caused by free radicals can result in many chronic conditions and degenerative diseases including certain types of cancer, atherosclerosis, thrombosis, arthritis, heart disease, immune system problems, Alzheimer’s disease, and dementia. Adequate source of magnesium Magnesium maintains the electrical potential across nerve and muscle membranes, and it helps you handle stress better. It is also necessary for healthy bones. A diet rich in beans and other magnesium containing foods is particularly important to those who are at an increased risk of magnesium deficiency. Risk factors that increase the likelihood of magnesium deficiency include diarrhea, celiac disease and other gastrointestinal problems, high alcohol consumption, and diabetes mellitus. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.