Rihanna Talks Upcoming Album, Love And Having Kids In Vogue Cover | Vogue November 2019 | Ethan James Green From music to fashion and business – Rihanna has proven that she is a force to reckon with. The Barbadian superstar was recently unveiled as the cover star for Vogue November issue (her sixth American Vogue cover!). In the accompanying interview, Rihanna opens up on a wide range of topics, her long-awaited upcoming album “R9, her love life, the mass shooting, Trump and having kids. Below are excerpts from the interview: ON HER FENTY BRAND “I’m not the face of my brand, but I am the muse, and my DNA has to run all the way through it. I don’t want anyone to pull up my website and think, Rihanna would never wear that.” ON HER LONG-AWAITED NINTH ALBUM “I have been trying to get back into the studio. It’s not like I can lock myself in for an extended amount of time, like I had the luxury of doing before. I know I have some very unhappy fans who don’t understand the inside bits of how it works.” “I like to look at it as a reggae-inspired or reggae-infused album. It’s not gonna be typical of what you know as reggae. But you’re going to feel the elements in all of the tracks. Reggae always feels right to me. It’s in my blood. It doesn’t matter how far or long removed I am from that culture, or my environment that I grew up in; it never leaves. It’s always the same high. Even though I’ve explored other genres of music, it was time to go back to something that I haven’t really homed in on completely for a body of work.” Rihanna Talks Upcoming Album, Love And Having Kids In Vogue Cover | Vogue November 2019 | Ethan James Green ON TURNING DOWN THE SUPER BOWL TO SUPPORT COLIN KAEPERNICK “Absolutely. I couldn’t dare do that. For what? Who gains from that? Not my people. I just couldn’t be a sellout. I couldn’t be an enabler. There’s things within that organization that I do not agree with at all, and I was not about to go and be of service to them in any way.” ON MASS SHOOTINGS AND TERRORISM IN THE U.S. “It is devastating. People are being murdered by war weapons that they legally purchase. This is just not normal. That should never, ever be normal. And the fact that it’s classified as something different because of the color of their skin? It’s a slap in the face. It’s completely racist.” ON TRUMP “Put an Arab man with that same weapon in that same Walmart and there is no way that Trump would sit there and address it publicly as a mental health problem. The most mentally ill human being in America right now seems to be the president.” Rihanna Talks Upcoming Album, Love And Having Kids In Vogue Cover | Vogue November 2019 | Ethan James Green ON STAYING WOKE: “I don’t feel outside the fray. When I see something happen to any woman, a woman of any minority, kids, black men being murdered in the streets–I can’t remove myself from that.” ON HER RELATIONSHIP WITH SAUDI BUSINESSMAN HASSAN JAMEEL “Yeah, I’m dating. I’m actually in an exclusive relationship for quite some time, and it’s going really well, so I’m happy.” ON WHETHER SHE WANTS KIDS “Without a doubt.” Read full interview