FirstBank Basketball Club of Lagos and their perennial rivals, Dolphins, as well as Hoops & Read and Raptors will play in the men’s and women’s final of the inaugural Eko Basketball League Championship, which holds on November 3 at the Teslim Balogun
Stadium by 1.00 p.m. To get to the final, Hoops & Read beat Customs in the best of two semifinal series 91-73, 77-47 to book the final date against Raptors, who narrowly pipped Dodan Warriors 75-63 in game one and 75-71 in game two to set up an intense battle for who
becomes the 2019 King of Eko Basketball. The Eko Basketball League, which has been running for six months, is the baby of the Lagos State Basketball Association, led by Chairman, Ms. Barbara Atinuke Harper. The league had five of the six elite women’s clubs in the country resident in Lagos, including reigning runners up of 2019 national women’s league, Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries (MFM) Basketball Club, First Bank, Dolphins, First Deepwater, Inspector General of Police (IGP) Queens and Raptors Angels, the only club not in the Zenith Women Basketball League battling in the Eko League. On the Men’s side are Hoops and Read, Customs, Police Baton, Flames, Victoria Garden City Pitbulls, NAF Rockets, Raptors and Dodan
Warriors all participated for the throne of the kings of Lagos basketball. According to the Technical Coordinator of the Eko Basketball League and Vice Chairman of LSSBA, Olumide Oyedeji, the association will put up a grand event to entertain fans, lovers of basketball and players in Lagos. “It has been a long season with lots of challenges. We had to be proactive as an association to start the Eko Basketball League when the national league was yet to
start. ” “Our focus is on developing  grassroots participation in basketball in the state and we are glad that despite all the breaks and intermissions due to the Zenith League, we are concluding the league this Sunday,” he said. The Eko Basketball League is in its inaugural season after many years of being called the Lagos City League. The rejigged league, known for churning out stars for the national leagues across the country for over a decade, had over 160 games in total this season.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .