 Prof Danbatta, EVC NCC. Photo: TWITTER/NGCOMCOMMISSION  Although improving at 39.6 per cent, Africa’s Internet penetration is still low when compared to the rest of the world, which has 62.7 per cent growth.
   
Statistics obtained from Internet World Stats showed that between 2000 and 2019, Internet penetration grew to 61.6 per cent in Nigeria, a country estimated to house about 200 million people.
   
With the figure, in terms of penetration, Nigeria ranks behind Kenya, which has 89.9 per cent penetration of a population of 52.2 million. Liberia with 4.9 million has 80.9 per cent penetration; Mali with 19.6 million has 63.4 per cent Internet penetration. Morocco with 36.6 million people has 64.8 per cent penetration; and Seychelles with a population of 95,702, has 70.1 per cent Internet penetration.  Telephone density or teledensity is the number of telephone connections for every hundred individuals living within an area. It varies widely across the nations and also between urban and rural areas within a country. Telephone density has a significant correlation with the per capita GDP of the area. It is also used as an indicator of the purchasing power of the middle class of the country or a specific region.
   
According to subscribers statistics obtained from the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), the country’s broadband penetration also leaped, moving from 64.3 million in July to 67 million users in August. The growth put the penetration at 35 per cent.  The new telephone numbers were added in the first quarter of 2019 and belonged to about 44 licensed telecom operators.
   
The numbering plan is used to allocate a unique national number to each subscriber connected to the national telephone system.
   
Some of the operators with national and states licenses, according to a document on NNP from NCC, are MTN Nigeria Communications, Vodacom, Globacom, NATCOM, 9Mobile, 21st Century Technologies Limited, Airtel Networks Limited, and Cyberspace Limited.
   
Meanwhile, the GSM technology remains the dominant tech in the industry with 99.58 per cent penetration. While CDMA has zero per cent; Fixed wired/wireless technology is 0.08 per cent, and Voice over Internet Protocol 0.34 per cent.   To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .