Academic Staff Union, Federal College of Education, (FCE) Kano, has disbursed N250,000 each to families of four colleagues who died while in active service of the college. Those whose benefited include late Dr. Gabriel Ogwuche, chief lecturer with the department of English, died in January 2019; Late Mal. Adamu Ali, a chief Instructor of department of Agric education, died February 2019; Late Dr. Nurudeen Nadabo, chief lecturer of department of Chemistry, died July 2019 and late Engr. Muhammad Kabir Lecturer III, department of Agric education also died October, 2019. Chairman of Academic Staff Providence Fund, Dr. Abdulkareem Tijani Mohammad disclosed that the initiative emanated from the academic staff Trust Fund raised to alleviate the conditions of relatives of departed colleagues. Dr, Abdulkareem who posited that the trust fund had so far accrued up to N3million naira deposit, through the monthly N1,000 members’ contribution, hinted that plans are under way to expand the scope of beneficiaries. The chairman regretted the suffering of some families of late colleague even before they secure entitlement their bread winners. “ We realized the challenges, pains and devastation some of the families mostly go through after the dead of their bread winners. Relatives sometimes suffer so much to get balance after losing their love ones. And to ameliorate such conditions, the idea of trust fund was though out. “ After what, the academic staff providence fund, was established to assist families of our members that passes away. Each academic member contribute N1,000 monthly to the purse and so far, we have up to N3 million since the trust fund established. “ This is the maiden edition of the disbursement and the union agreed to give out N250,000 each to the families of the four members who died this year as gesture. We plan to extend the beneficiaries to the children of the decease when the pocket grows such that we give out scholarship to children and other education package”. Dr. Abdulkareem said. Speaking on behalf, of the benefiting families, Mrs Ogwuche, wife of Dr. Gabriel Ogwuche applauded the support of the academic staff added that the assistance will crushing challenges most of them are presently passing through. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .