President charges groups to access loans for agriculture, others
The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has asked the National Assembly to investigate and sanction President Buhari for assigning official facilities in the Presidential villa to unauthorised persons that have no official roles in governance. The PDP also described the fight between the First Lady, Aisha Buhari and the President’s cousins, over rooms in the Presidential villa, as distasteful, saying the development further underlined the managerial ineptitude and leadership failures of the Buhari Presidency. In a statement issued by its national publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, it said, “The chaos in the Villa further exposes the Buhari Presidency’s poor management of issues and highlights why it has failed to deliver on any of its responsibilities in governance, thus leaving our nation in a shambolic situation in the last five years.” Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday urged various groups to access government interventions, loans and schemes to promote agriculture with a view to ending poverty in the country. Buhari, who was represented by Vice-Chairman, National Food Security Council, Governor Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State, made the appeal during the second National Unity Food Fair, organised by National Council for Women Societies (NCWS). At the summit with the theme, “Subsistent Farming to Mechanisation at the Grassroots,” the President said funds were available for various groups to access, adding that the funds, when fully accessed, will promote agriculture, reduce importation of agricultural produce, livestock and reduce unemployment in the country. “The money is there because we have instructed the CBN to make money available for agri-business. Groups should come out and request for agriculture funding because the funds are available.””Nigerian food is the best in the world, let us grow what we eat and eat what we grow so that we can end poverty. Food security will also end unemployment,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .