Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami The Minister of Communications, Dr. Isa Pantami, has directed parastatals under his ministerial supervision not to reject corps members posted to them by the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). Pantami, who said the attention of the Ministry has been drawn to the rising cases of corps member rejection by parastatals, noted that such practice kills creativity and talents. He directed departments and Agencies within the Ministry to comply with the provisions of the law regarding the NYSC scheme. He explained that the NYSC scheme was established by the Federal Government of Nigeria with the objective of inculcating the spirit of selfless service to the community, encourage and develop ties among youth and to emphasise the spirit of oneness and brotherhood in all Nigerians irrespective of cultural or social background. ‘‘It is in pursuant of this objective that the Federal Government mandated all Ministries Departments and Agencies (MDAs) to make adequate provision for Youth Corps Members to carry out their mandatory national assignment,’’ he stated. Pantami said the present administration is particularly mindful of the fact that the future the country depends on the youths, and ‘‘therefore, they must be equipped for the critical role that lies ahead.’’ To this end, the minister has initiated a policy to ensure corps members are equipped with adequate entrepreneurial skills at the end of their service year, to properly empower and position them as entrepreneurs instead of job seekers. He therefore directed that with immediate effect, all agencies and parastatals under the supervision of his ministry must provide opportunities for an appreciable number of youth corps members within their capacities in their regional and head offices yearly, with adequate arrangements for their renumeration; give special attention to graduates with ICT – related qualifications; ensure the effective use of their time by posting them to relevant departments/units/sections of the organisation; and plan and execute special ICT entrepreneurial skills capacity building programmes for serving corps members. The minister is confident that these measures will be pivotal to the realisation of this administration’s Next Level Agenda of building a prosperous and globally competitive economy for the benefit of all Nigerians. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .