*To arrest, prosecute passengers of vehicles driving against traffic To ensure a free flowing traffic across the city, Lagos State Government has issued a seven-day abatement notice to traders, transporters and their unions in seven locations across the state, where traffic gridlock is due to trading and commercial transportation activities. He listed the seven locations to be Ikorodu roundabout, Oyingbo, Yaba, Iyana-ipaja, Ketu, Ikotun and Ajah. “In dealing with these identified locations, we will serve a seven-day abatement notice to all concerned locations effective from 4th of October, 2019 and thereafter prepare them for full enforcement of traffic laws and their attendants fines and penalties,” Commissioner for Transportation, Frederic Abimbola Oladeinde, said at the maiden stakeholders meeting on traffic management. “The full force enforcement would commence at the expiration of the seven day notice on October 11,2019,” he added. He disclosed that 60 traffic gridlock locations have been identified by the state government adding that the state would not tolerate the disobedience of traffic law. The commissioner said the enforcement team would have its members drawn from road union members, traders across different locations, task force, Police, traffic management agencies and other stakeholders in the transport sector. “In Lagos State, it is not uncommon to see vehicles illegally parked on either side of the road, some even drive in such a careless fashion that makes nonsense of traffic law while other drive on or across the road medians, other human activities that complicate the traffic hassle in the state include: driving against traffic, making illegal U-turns, using reverse drive to cover long distances to beat traffic jam, disobeying traffic lights and other traffic instructions, and illegal trading activities on road among others.” The commissioner said it is the reason the state government embarked on the spot assessment of traffic situations across the state which led to the identification of sixty gridlock locations across the state with seventy five percent largely caused by human activities. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Transportation, Mr Olawale Musa said the state government would soon implement the aspect of the traffic law which makes passengers a culprit in the violation of traffic law. He said that both the commercial bus driver and the passengers would be arrested and prosecuted if a bus drive against traffic.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .