Police arrest Ajah traffic robber
A wheelbarrow pusher suspected to have vandalised a truck and two buyers of his stolen items were at the weekend arrested by the operatives of Rapid Response Squad (RRS) at Ladipo market, Toyota bus stop, Oshodi, Lagos State. The suspect, Sunday Ogbonna, aged 27, was arrested at dawn in Toyota bus stop while coming from Ilasa. Recovered from his wheelbarrow were a radiator, two heavy-duty batteries and four jerry-cans filled with diesel. Ogbonna, in his confession to detectives, said the truck radiator, two batteries and four diesel-filled jerry-cans were handed over to him in Ilasa, Lagos, by two young men at about 4:00a.m. on Friday. He added that he was close to Ladipo Spare Parts Market, Oshodi, when the police stopped him. “I looked back and I didn’t see any of the guys that had engaged me to carry the items”, the suspect said. “This is not the first time I would be helping them to carry materials like that to Ladipo. It was the fourth time. I charged them N2,500 for these particular materials. At another time, I had collected N1,800 for such things. “Once I get to Ladipo, they would tell me to wait while they sold off those materials and pay me. The materials I helped them carry before this were eight jerry-cans filled with diesel and batteries.” The buyers, Oyegbuchi Leonard, 50 and Hassan Umoru, 55, both confessed to have bought heavy-duty batteries and diesel oil from the suspects. They also confirmed making payment ranging from N15,000 to N20,000 differently and separately for items brought for sale but pleaded that they never knew the items were stolen. The three suspects have been transferred to State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID), Panti, for further investigations. Meanwhile, the police in Lagos have arrested 23-year-old Ayobami Adegbite for alleged armed robbery of passers-by in Ajah. Adegbite, according to the police, led a gang of armed miscreants who were terrorising road users along Ado Ajah and UTC on September 28. Attacks on motorists by hoodlums in Ajah had been on the rise since the resurgence of cult clashes in the area. Many cases of attacks on motorists have been reported in recent times with the police confirming some arrests in each of the incidents. Police spokesman, Bala Elkana, said Adegbite with his gang struck at about 10:00p.m. and were attacking road users when policemen received distress call and stormed the area. “A team of policemen led by the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) Langbasa mobilised to the scene. On sighting the police, the hoodlums opened fire but were over powered by the police team. One Ayobami Adegbite, 23, who led the gang was arrested with one short gun, N16,000 and one digital camera they snatched from a victim. The suspect confessed to the crime and has given some useful information concerning the operations of his gang. “Operatives of the Special Anti Robbery Squad (SARS) Ikeja who have taken over the investigation are on the trail of the fleeing members of the gang. Investigation is ongoing,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .