Business Manager, Ikeja Electric Ikorodu Business Unit, Rotimi Famoroti; Secretary to Local Government (SLG), Mr. Olambiwonu Kunle, who represented the chairman of Ijede LCDA; Head Teacher, Anglican Pry. School, Ijede, Mrs. Arubiewe Olayemi; Education Secretary, Local Government Education Authority (LGEA), Ikorodu, Austen Taiwo Oduloye and Head of Corporate Communications, Ikeja Electric, Felix Ofulue presenting educational items to Anglican Pry. School, Ijede, Lagos. The chairman of the Ijede Local Council Development Association (LCDA), Salisu Fatiu Jimoh, has commended the donation of educational packs, including bags, exercise books, and pens to support pupils of Anglican Primary School, Ijede in Ikeja Electric’s ‘Back to School’ campaign. The initiative was carried out as part of the company’s Personal Corporate Social Responsibility (PCSR) organised by the staff of Ikeja Electric. The council chairman, Jimoh, who was represented by Secretary to Local Government, Mr. Olambiwonu Kunle, commended IE for the kind gesture and promised his support to the DisCo. Education Secretary, Local Government Education Authority (LGEA), Austen Taiwo Oduloye, also applauded the gestures by Ikeja Electric. “We appreciate this gesture and we expect the company to do more for other schools. Immediately these students get home, their counterparts in other schools will ask them how they got these items and they will expect the company to come to their school as well. We implore your company to put other schools in mind,” he noted. Commending the Disco, headteacher of the school, Mrs. Arubiewe Aminat Olayemi, said: “This gesture will have a great impact on the lives of the students and their parents. It will also motivate other kids outside to also enroll in our school.” According to her, “some of them used to have polythene bags to bring their books, but these bags will be very useful for them. Like Oliver Twist, we look forward to more support from the company, especially looking at the challenges facing the school,” she added. Excited to receive the gifts, a Primary 6 pupil of the school, Mohammed Ramota, said: “I thank Ikeja Electric for giving us these bags and books that we need. It will encourage us to learn and be serious.” While addressing the pupils, Business Manager, Ikeja Electric Ikorodu Business Unit, Rotimi Famoroti, said “in line with our ‘Back-To-School’ programme and as a responsible corporate organisation, we are glad to support the schools by providing the educational materials to them as a way of giving back to the community within our network. We encourage you all to put them to good use. We believe these initiatives will make a significant impact on the beneficiaries.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .