 Nigeria’s Joy Udo-Gabriel reacts after competing in the Women’s 4x100m Relay heats at the 2019 IAAF Athletics World Championships at the Khalifa International stadium in Doha on October 4, 2019. (Photo by Jewel SAMAD / AFP)  After the country’s sole representative in the men shot put event, Chukwuebuka Enekwechi made it to the final amidst tough opponents on Thursday, many Nigerians hoping to see another glorious outing by the relay teams yesterday. The female team made up of Udo Gabriel Joy, Blessing Okagbare, Ntia Obong Mercy and Rosemary Chukwu put up a disappointing show in the women’s 4x100m relay, finishing 7th despite running a Season Best time of 13.05seconds. Attention then shifted to the male team, which includes Enoch Adegoke, Ogho-Oghene Egwero, and Seye Ogunlewe. It turned out to be a double tragedy. Apart from struggling to finish last in the race, the team was disqualified after one of the athletes stepped committed a technical foul in the process of baton exchange. Since the commencement of the championship on September 27, Nigerian athletes have crashed one after the other. The likes of Blessing Okagbare, Divine Oduduru, Patience Okon George, Favour Ofili, Oyesade Olatoye and Chioma Onyekwere had performed below the expectation of Nigerians in Doha. Nigeria’s Raymond Ekevwo (L), USA’s Justin Gatlin and Jamaica’s Yohan Blake (R) run to the finish line in the Men’s 100m semi-final at the 2019 IAAF World Athletics Championships at the Khalifa International stadium in Doha on September 28, 2019. (Photo by KARIM JAAFAR / AFP)  Read More: Another bad day for Team Nigeria as George, Ofili crash out in 400m Amusan, who is one of the star athletes in the 100m hurdles, will run in lane 9, Heat 5 alongside athletes from Australia, Finland, Jamaica, The Netherland, South Africa, Poland, and France. On her part, Brume, who made a big headline earlier this year with a throw of 7.05 meters will campaign in Group A against athletes from France, Italy, Cyprus, USA, Hungary, Australia, France, Cuba, Jamaica, and Great Britain. Team U.S. currently tops the medals table with nine gold, China (three gold), Jamaica (two gold), Great Britain (two gold) and Kenya with two gold medals.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .