 Community Relations Manager, Green Energy Limited, Mrs. Ibioku Amachree (right), handing over some of books provided by the company to Principal of Community Secondary School, Ebormung in Andoni, Mr. Adasi Longjohn.  The communities include; Ugama Ekede; Ayala; Asuk oyet; Asuk Ama; Ngo Ataba; Iboterim; Dema and Ebukuma. Others are Asarama; Unyeada; Agwut-Obolo; Unyeangala; Egbormong; Egwede and Nyeoron. The Community Relations Manager of the Company, Mrs. Ibioku Amachree, while handing over the materials to the Headmasters and Principals of the schools, at the weekend, said the gesture was to improve education in its host communities and prepare a great future for the teeming youths. She urged heads of the schools to ensure the materials get to all the students, adding that the company would not be happy with any school that fails to put the books into judicious use. Amachree disclosed that the firm had in May, this year, donated six one-bedroom apartments to the community secondary school in Ikuru town. “We have also awarded 40 scholarships to 40 undergraduates and postgraduates indigenes of the host communities, and we are expanding to add post-primary schools.” Speaking on behalf of UBE section of the Community Secondary, in Ikuru town, Mrs. Glory Igbi, lauded the company for the gesture, stressing that the help came at the right time and would lift the burden of buying books off shoulders of parents. On his part, Chairman, Ikuru Council of Chiefs, Chief Micheal Omayi, said the firm has distinguished itself as a company that cares for its host communities. “Before now, we have Otakikpo Marginal oil field in OML 11, operated by Shell Development Company (SPDC), but nothing was done to the community by Shell, but when the Green Energy Limited came on board, they started with the healthcare system, education and the people of Ikuru town are now happy.
   
“When they came in, we signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) where the company releases the fund to the community for development monthly and from that, we have building blocks of the classroom, pay some students fees. If this is replicated in other places, the oil-bearing communities in the Niger Delta region will be happy.” The Ikuru monarch expressed optimism that the gesture would eradicate criminalities in the state and prepare the youths for a great future. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .