Aboutsix local councils have been infected with Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTDs) in Lagos State, a disease caused by poor hygiene and contaminated water. According to a survey carried out by the state’s Ministry of Health, the six local government areas – Mushin, Alimosho, Ikeja, Ibeju Lekki, Agege and Kosofe – are confirmed to be endemic of Schistosomiasis, one of the NTDs. While speaking at an awareness outreach organised by Youth Empowerment and Development Initiative (YEDI) and the NFund in Kosofe Local Government, NTD coordinator, Lagos State, Olanrewaju Jenrola, noted that NTDs diseases is not only a disease of the poor, hence the need for the awareness. He urged the people on good hygiene to avert the deadly disease adding that anybody can contact the disease. Jenrola however noted that the survey for Elephantiasis and other NTDs have not been carried out in the state yet saying, “We will still do the survey. Swimming in contaminated water exposes people to the disease. It causes high morbidity among the affected. It leads to high school absenteeism, anaemia, poor growth, bladder cancer and even death. It often affects school-aged children (5-14 years). On her part, Africa regional adviser on public affairs, Nfund, Oyetola Oduyemi, called heightened awareness on NTDs in the state and urged the government for partnership and support in putting an end to the diseases. “These are a bunch of bacteria plaguing Africa. According to world health organization, over 120million Nigerians are at risk of one or more of the NTDs. In addition to the treatment we want to drive awareness about what causes this diseases because they are easily preventable. We need the people to know, we want to end the diseases in this generation.” Also, Executive Director of YEDI, Oje Ivagba advocates a clean and safe environment in the state, stressing that the harm that the disease causes is devastating. He urged the government to intensify campaign on prevention of the NTDs. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .