Chelsea’s English head coach Frank Lampard (L) celebrates on the pitch with Chelsea’s English striker Tammy Abraham (R), holding the matchball after scoring a hattrick after the English Premier League football match between Wolverhampton Wanderers and Chelsea at the Molineux stadium in Wolverhampton, central England on September 14, 2019. – Chelsea won the game 5-2. (Photo by GEOFF CADDICK / AFP) Tammy Abraham had a feeling he would mark his 22nd birthday with a goal and the Chelsea striker’s prediction came true as he scored in Wednesday’s 2-1 Champions League win at Lille. Abraham bagged his first Champions League goal to put Frank Lampard’s side ahead — appropriately enough in the 22nd minute — when he turned to fire home from Fikayo Tomori’s pass. Chelsea went onto secure their first win in this season’s tournament as Willian celebrated his 300th appearance for the Blues with a late volleyed winner. “We came into the game and we knew that we needed to win. I knew I would get my chance today and I think I took it well,” Abraham told BT Sport. “Overall it was a good game. It’s never an easy place to play. Give it to the team, what a fantastic performance.” Abraham, who now has eight goals this season, revealed Lampard had been drilling a new system that helped see off Lille. “We worked on it in training, the manager he always wants to mix it up,” Abraham said. “We’ve got the players for it, we’ve got fantastic players. We can play any system and that’s what we need to do throughout the season.” On a landmark night for Willian, the Brazilian winger was happy to give the credit to his team-mates for the way they responded to Victor Osimhen’s equaliser. “We deserved to win tonight. We needed to win and we have worked hard every day, every game. The lads did an amazing job and now we have to carry on,” Willian said. “Football is like this, we never can give up. Always try, always run, always work and we deserved to win tonight.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .