• Governor to acquire two armoured vehicles to boost security
• Ovia North-East reads the riot act to absentee lawmakers The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has criticised Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State for removing from office four council chairmen elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the four chairmen were removed from office between August 2 and October 10 this year. Edo PDP chairman, Chief Dan Orbih, said it was wrong and unconstitutional for the governor to remove from office anyone constitutionally elected by the people. Orbih was speaking yesterday in Benin City after receiving an award from the Edo State chapter of the Coalition of Registered Political Parties (CRPP). The chairman, who represented by the Publicity Secretary of Edo PDP, Mr. Chris Nehikhare, said it was disheartening and rape of democracy for a democratically-elected governor to remove a democratically-elected council chairman. The sacked chairmen included Mr. Aremiyau Momih of Etsako East, Mr. Yakson Musa of Etsako West, Ms Eghe Ogbemudia of Egor and Mr. Patrick Aguinede of Esan West. Obaseki had similarly sacked secretaries in the 18 councils for alleged corruption and abuse of office. However, Orbih urged the governor to reverse the decision, arguing that removing elected officials by another elected official was undemocratic and ultra vires. The chairman of CRPP in Edo, Dr. Samson Isibor, described the awardees as people who had distinguished themselves in their chosen fields of endeavour. Meanwhile, Ovia North-East chapter of the APC has frowned at the explanation of Vincent Uwadiae and Dumez Ugiagbe for failing to present themselves for inauguration as members of Edo House of Assembly. In an enlarged meeting conveyed by members of the party across the 13 wards in Ovia North-East Council, the party resolved that the absence of two of its elected representatives would affect the development of the area. They, therefore, urged the two members-elect to resume plenary on October 21, 2019, without failure, to avoid sanctions. Addressing party members yesterday, APC chairman in Ovia North-East, Etinosa Ighodaro, said the party had earlier sent letters to the duo to explain their refusal to be sworn in, to no avail. Also, Governor Obaseki has said that his government was making available two additional Armoured Personnel Carriers (APCs) to the state’s police command as part of efforts to strengthen the security architecture. He said this yesterday when he received the executive members of the Police Community Relations Committee (PCRC) in Benin City. According to the governor, Edo government is focused on ensuring that the state does not produce criminals. “That is why we are investing in infrastructure, quality basic education, technical education, as well as youth empowerment programmes to create jobs and better the lives of our people,” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .