Headies 2019: Falz Calls For Sowore’s Release Nigerian rapper Folarin Falana, popularly known as Falz or Falz The Bahd Guy last night at the 2019 Headies awards ceremony called for the release of release of the co-convener of the RevolutionNow Movement, Omoyele Sowore. Falz made this call during his speech as he accepted the award for the best rap single. Moral Instruction is the fourth studio album by Nigerian rapper Falz. The award winning album discussed the economical dip, corrupt judicial system, transactional sex and religious hypocrisy. In his speech, Falz noted music should should be used as a tool to force change: “Big thank you to the Headies. I do appreciate this. I’m happy that music as a weapon of rebellion, as a tool for the revolution, conscious music, is being recognized tonight. That I’m a 100 per cent happy about. “Ladies and gentlemen for the last year, I’ve done a lot of very very conscious music, this I would never stop doing. “I believe Music should be used as a tool to force the change that we are looking for. “Thank you very very much my name is Falz The Bhad Guy. “Free Sowore!” Falz, who is very vocal on social issues, had earlier condemned the arrest of Sowore: “What we are facing is a build-up of the several years of neglect of the welfare of our people. Our government’s constant disregard for the loss of lives of many Nigerians.” He added, “The ridiculous rate of poverty and unemployment that afflicts us. This is not a time to arrest anyone but to listen to the voices of the masses. Organizing a protest march does not in any way amount to treason. #FreeSowore Immediately!” Sowore was arrested by the DSS Saturday, August 3 for planning a nationwide protest tagged #RevolutionNow The Nigerian government filed additional charges against Sowore on Friday, September 20, a day before the completion of the initial 45 days the court allowed the DSS to keep him in custody. Sowore was charged on offences of treasonable felony, money laundering, terrorism and plots to overthrow President Muhammadu Buhari.