One Joseph Sunday of Obot Idim Ibesikpo, in Ibesikpo/Asutan local government area of Akwa Ibom State, has been nabbed by the police for allegedly raping his two daughters, aged nine and 13 years. It was gathered that the suspect had been having canal knowledge of his daughters for over three years after he divorced the mother of the girls who had relocated to Rivers State. Investigations revealed that Sunday, in his late 40s, always had sex with his two daughters at same time in his home in Ibesikpo. It was also revealed that the suspect always threatens them with traditional injunction (Mbiam) if they make attempts to report the case to anyone. But the incestuous affair was blown open when he caught his 13-year-old daughter with another man who identified himself as the daughter’s boyfriend. This did not go down well with the suspect, thereby resulting in his beating the girl, who got incensed and exposed her father’s illicit acts with her. Meanwhile, the nine-year-old victim confessed that she was already in love with her father and had enjoyed the act. The suspect who confessed to the crime said he wanted to test if his manhood was still functioning well. “My wife left me some years ago because of some family issues and relocated to Rivers State. I have been the only one taking care of my daughters. I just wanted to test if my manhood is still functional using my daughters,” he said. Similarly, two men suspected to be in their 70s have allegedly raped a 14-year-old girl in the state. The first suspect said the girl was his wife whom he met in the market and married. He said the girl moved in with him and when he went out, his friend in same age bracket came in and had sex with the girl. Both friends feasted on the victim until heated argument ensued between them, which made a neighbour to overhear their argument and decided to report the matter to the police before they were arrested. According to the neighbour who pleaded anonymity, “I was shocked to overhear two old men arguing over sex with a 14-year-old girl. The one that the girl stayed with accused his friend of always sneaking in to sleep with the girl any time he went out. I was worried with that and I decided to report them to the police.  But the issue is that some boys who said they are from the area are threatening to deal with me if I don’t withdraw the case from police”. However, the prime suspect had denied raping the girl but insisted that the girl is his wife. “I did not rape the girl. She is my wife.” The victim it was further gathered was already pregnant without knowing the particular man responsible for the pregnancy. Meanwhile, the police said they were making efforts to trace the family of the girl, adding that the victim has been taken to a home run by the pet project of the wife of the governor, Martha Udom Emmanuel, called Family Enhancement and Youths Reorientation Project (FEYReP). The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, SP Odiko MacDon, told newsmen that all the cases would be charged to court. The PPRO, who ascribed the case to the level of moral decadence in the society, called for attitudinal reorientation and urged people to report perpetrators of such dastardly acts to police.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .