Abiodun Promises to prioritise roads, education for Ogun West in budget
Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun has promised that women would constitute between 40 and 50 per cent of his cabinet appointments. He also promised to prioritise road construction and rehabilitation as well as education for the Ogun West Senatorial District in the 2020 budget. The governor, who spoke at a town hall meeting with stakeholders of the Ogun West Senatorial District in preparation of the 2020 budget, said: “I want to assure you that my cabinet will have if not 50 per cent of women, at least 40 per cent. You voted for me to give you good governance and we will ensure that it cuts across the nooks and crannies of the state. We will ensure we give over 100,000 women loans without interest.” He promised that the era of non-implementation of budget estimate was over, saying that he would ensure proper implementation when passed into law. Besides, the governor also said that the state government was taking full advantage of its strategic geographical location and as the industrial hub of the nation to improve its socio-economic development and create wealth for the people. He described the district as the engine room of the state, saying: “We are taking maximum advantage of our geographical location as the largest economy in Africa and a window into the West Africa corridor.” Stakeholders at the meeting, which had in attendance traditional rulers, elders, tradesmen, artisans and party stalwarts, had demanded that road rehabilitation be made the topmost priority for them. The leaders, who lamented the deplorable state of intra-city roads as well as those leading to villages, farmlands and industrial hubs in the five local councils of the zone, urged resuscitation of the moribund health facilities and human capital development. In their contributions, the governorship candidate of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) in the last election, Gboyega Nasir Isiaka; Senator Akin Odunsi from Ado-Odo/Ota, Mufutau Ajibola from Yewa North, Yahaya Fadipe from Imeko-Afon, Mrs. Iyabo Apampa and Chief Olu Agemo from Yewa South, implored the government to declare a state of emergency on roads, as it was the major challenge in the district. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .