 Delta State Governor, H.E Sen. Dr. Ifeanyi Arthur Okowa. Photo/Twitter/GovIfeanyiOkowa  Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State has reiterated his administration’s readiness to pay the new N30,000 minimum wage once the Federal Government and organised labour finalise negotiations.He urged the organised labour to always disseminate appropriate information to the workers for industrial harmony in the polity. Okowa stated this in Asaba yesterday when the new executive council members of Trade Union Congress (TUC) in the state visited him. The governor, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Olisa Ifeajika, told the labour leaders that if they worked hard and made their mark, the people would recognise and appreciate them. He expressed the belief that for the society to progress, there should be peace in the work place.“There has to be a lot of partnership between government and workers; when the partnership is real, the people will enjoy the benefits of government. So, organised labour should disseminate necessary information to workers to boost the partnership between workers and government. “We need to re-assure Deltans and the working class that we will do our best to uplift the standard of living and ensure development in the state,” Okowa said.The chairman of TUC in the state, Martins Bolum, thanked the governor for his numerous achievements, and pledged that trade unions would help in enlightening workers on government’s activities. In another development, the governor has urged the church to engage more in soul-winning programmes, as true Christians will become change agents in the society.He stated this yesterday in Asaba when the General Overseer of Omega Fire Ministry, Apostle Johnson Suleiman, visited him. The governor said that the world was witnessing challenges, hence the need for more religious crusades to win souls that would contribute to national rebirth.“The global challenges have impacted on us as a nation and it calls for prayers; the church should continue to pray for our nation and keep hope alive. “We must continue to intercede for our country, as God will make things better for us. We are happy that the prayers said at crusades not only win souls but also touch our land spiritually and positively. This soul-winning will help in the development of our society, because the people who are converted will become agents of change.”Earlier, the cleric had said that he was in Asaba for a crusade and thanked the governor for the enabling environment, which made it possible for such activities to take place.He described the governor as a “Godly man” who provided positive leadership in the state. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .