The Ghanaian information and technology space is set to benefit from Nigeria’s data centre operations, as operators begin exchange services. The data centre, which is to be piloted by MDXi will be based in Appolonia City, a mixed-use development 20 kilometers from the center of Accra, and expected to be ready for service in the fourth quarter of 2020. It is expected to cater for the ever-increasing demand for colocation and interconnection services for multinationals and local businesses seeking shared services. The data centre, which is a Tier III facility, will be constructed on 4,047 sqm metropolitan land area. metropolitan Area. The 100-rack facility will offer users the opportunity to host infrastructure in a facility guaranteed to provide high levels of availability and rich connectivity with a global network of customers, partners and suppliers thus ensuring 24X7 online deliveries of services for the businesses. The infrastructure, which is overseen by MainOne, offers private data center suites, enterprise-grade 24×7 multi-level security and video surveillance, precision cooling, safety and fire suppression systems with multiple redundancies built into the power, cooling and security architecture. The facility will offer access to various Internet Exchanges including the GIX (Ghana), IXPN (Nigeria), LINX (London), DECIX (Frankfurt/Lisbon), and Cote d’Ivoire Internet Exchange (CIVIX), as well as the West Africa Internet Exchange (WAF-IX). Regional Executive, MainOne, Kazeem Oladepo, said with the commitment to providing broadband infrastructure solutions across West Africa, the infrastructure is an investment to support the digitisation journey of users with the new data center facility across the region. Speaking on the development, Director, MDXi, Gbenga Adegbiji, said the expansion will see MDXi contributing to the growth of the local economy by providing jobs, enhancing capacity development and economic growth. “Most importantly, it ensures that we are fully equipped and positioned to serve more businesses in Ghana as the region continues to grow its digital economy.” Regarding the impact the expansion will have on the city, CEO Appolonia City, Bright Owosu-Amofah, stated that, “The city’s innovative vision to drive industrialisation and social infrastructure has been made possible through partnerships like MainOne and its subsidiary company MDXi, whose data centre infrastructure will play a major role towards the economic growth and viability of Appolonia City, and also be the backbone for a connected ICT ecosystem. We look forward to witnessing the future of businesses being locally hosted and digitally empowered.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .