 Female suspect and the vehicle she stole<br />  The Lagos State police command has arrested a man for allegedly killing a one-year-old girl. Also in police net is a girl, simply named Deborah, aged 23, for allegedly robbing her client of a Sport Utility Vehicle (SUV), phones, money and other personal effects. The female suspect, an indigene of Abia State, was invited by the victim, Patrick, to his residence, MKO Crescent, off Toyin Street, Ikeja for house cleaning and sexual affairs. After cleaning the house and making love, the suspect allegedly locked the victim inside the house and ran away with his Toyota SUV, two Samsung S10, wristwatch, designer perfumes and some money. Disclosing this, the Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Bala Elkana, said: “The incident happened on October 20 at about 2:00a.m. when the man was sleeping. According to the complainant, he invited the suspect to help in cleaning up the house for him. He said he met the suspect at Shoprite, Ikeja selling some cleaning products for a company and they agreed for N20,000 for her services. “The suspect, however, added that the invitation was not just for cleaning of the house, but also for sexual reasons. That after having sex, she noticed that the complainant was far asleep and she quickly took his two phones, some cash, other items, the SUV and escaped from the house after locking him up in the room. “A team of detectives, led by the Divisional Police Officer, Ikeja, CSP Gbenga Ogunsaki, arrested the suspect and recovered the stolen items. The suspect has been charged to court and is presently remanded in correctional custody,” he said. Elkana added that in another development, a suspect was arrested for allegedly killing a one-year-old girl by smashing her head on the floor. He said: “Mr. Garuba Isiaka, of Ayo Ijaiye Street, reported at the police station that on the same date at about 6:00p.m. while at Berger, he received a phone call from his younger brother, Alhaji Mohammad Isiaka, that one Isiaka Ayobami ‘of Ayo Ijaiye Street, Isheri, forcefully seized his daughter, Nana Aishat Isiaka, a year old from the mother and hit her on the ground. The baby’s head was shattered and she died on the spot. The suspect was almost lynched by angry mob from the area, but for the timely intervention of the police. He will be charged to court for murder.” Meanwhile, a 16-year-old boy, Adewale Ayuba, has been arrested by officials of the Lagos State Neighbourhood Safety Corps (LNSC) for allegedly killing his mate during a cult clash in Ijanikin. It was gathered that the incident occurred October 21 during a fight between Oto Awori Secondary School and Government Secondary School boys. Ayuba was said to have stabbed one Abdulahi Wasiu on the chest killing him on the spot. According to the Public Affairs Officer of the agency, Olawale Afolabi, LNSC officials at Vespa received information and notified policemen at Ijanikin Division, who moved to the scene. “The police in conjunction with LNSC took the deceased to the hospital. The boy that committed the offence ran away but he was fished out and arrested by our men who handed him over to Ijanikin police station for further action,” said Afolabi. This is just as policemen attached to Alapere Division on Saturday morning arrested four suspected cultists including a woman said to have lodged at a hotel in the neighbourhood. It was gathered that the suspects identified as Dare Taiwo, 26; Ayomide Adebanjo, 22; Odunayo Akinsanmi, 28; and Babatunde Akinsomi 32; were arrested at Money Mack Hotel, Oshogu in Alapere.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .