 Motorcyclist who stole his in-law’s police crested vest and cap in order to hijack a motorcycle along with two other suspects have been nabbed in Ikorodu  The motorcyclist, Emmanuel Michael, 24 in company with two other accomplices: Moses Ogeh, 27 and Ojonugwa Ojomeje, 29, were arrested in Ita-Maga area of Ikorodu after hijacking a motorbike popularly called ‘okada’ from a cyclist while impersonating police officers. Two of the suspects, Ojomeje and Ogeh were caught in Mobile Police (MOPOL) vest and police vest and fez cap while trying to escape after collecting an ‘Okada’ from a rider. The trio, operating on Michael’s ‘okada’ in the area, had around 10:00 p.m. accosted another ‘okada’ rider, stopped him and dispossessed him of his motorcycle. They were said to have told the owner that they were police officers from a nearby police station. The victim on releasing the ‘okada’ to the robbers walked a few steps away before crying out for help. This drew the attention of passers-by and the RSS operatives in the area. They were chased and arrested a few meters from the scene. According to the Ojomeje, leader of the gang, “in July, men in police uniform collected my ‘okada’ in Ikorodu. They told me they were a task force team from Ebute Police Station. They advised me to meet them there while they took the ‘okada’ away. I went from Ebute Police Station to Ijede, Mola, and Ladigboye Police Post, there was no trace of them. It was my only means of livelihood. It was exactly a week I got the ‘okada’ on hired purchase at N280,000. “I paid only N40,000 with a balance of N240,000 to settle the owner, Chinedu. I searched for it in all the surrounding police stations but there was no record of it. In order to pay the balance because Chinedu couldn’t make the excuse, I borrowed my friend’s bike, and in bits, I paid another N40,000. Because the owner was deeply on my neck with the payment, I sought the assistance of my friend to help me hijack another ‘okada’. “I had a MOPOL vest at home thrown away by a former neighbour in Obalende. I appealed to Michael to borrow me his sister’s husband’s police uniform. The plan was to get a motorbike for me and later on, I would pay them too after I might have finished paying my debt. While I put on the MOPOL vest, Ogeh, a food seller put on the police vest and fez cap. At 10:00 p.m. the three of us set out using Michael’s ‘okada’ to Ita Maga. We collected a bike but we were arrested”. Protesting vociferously to Ojomeje’s explanation of their roles, Michael and Ogeh stated that they were charmed and made to take an oath by their ringleader. They added that they were offered kolanut to eat after Ojomeje had promised them a successful outing. According to sources, Michael’s in-law whose police vest and fez cap were used for the operation was outside the state at the time of the incident.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .