 From left: Gov. Seyi Makinde of Oyo State; Permanent Secretary, Oyo State Ministry of Health, Dr Ayoola Adebisi; Consultant to Oyo State Government on Health, Dr Funmi Salami and Commissioner for Health, Dr Bashir Bello, during the inspection of Oyo State General Hospital by the governor at  Jericho in Ibadan on Monday (21/10/19).<br />06994/21/10/2019/Timothy Adeogodiran/HB/NAN  Makinde, who was reacting to the management of government projects during the administration of the immediate past administration in the state, said that the manner in which many government projects were abandoned, especially following bogus commissioning exercises, left much to be desired. His comments came on the heels of criticisms by the Oyo State APC against his plan to reconstruct Lagos-Iwo Road Interchange with N8 billion. A statement by Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, said that the governor made the statement while speaking with newsmen after the inspection tour of some government installations. The governor stated that the previous administration in the state attempted to fool the people of the state with bogus contracts and projects to the detriment of the people. Makinde, who decried the movement of facilities from the Maternal and Paediatric Centre, Jericho, Ibadan, for a “ceremonial commissioning” of the Abiola Ajimobi Maternal and Paediatric Centre, Olodo, Ibadan, by the immediate-past administration of Senator Abiola Ajimobi, yesterday, during an inspection of the Jericho facility, said the movement of facilities, worth millions of naira, away from a Jericho facility that was at 80 per cent completion stage, amounted to a waste of resources. The governor, who lamented that the Jericho facility was already falling apart and had failed to offer the needed value to citizens of the state, however, assured that his administration would fix and complete the project by end of the year. He stated that upon completion, the new facility would host members of staff of Jericho Specialist Hospital, adding that the relocation of the workers of the hospital to the new centre was informed by inadequate space at their current site. The governor, who earlier visited the proposed headquarters of the Oyo State Road Transport Management Agency (OYRTMA), assured of a commitment to fix the place for conducive and secure operations. He said the location, when fixed, would enhance operations of various governmental agencies dealing with road and transport management in the state. He said: “You have all seen the situation out there; it is almost like wasting the resources of the state. “The state has put in a lot of resources but have not been able to get any value for the citizens. They took all the equipment from there to do a ceremonial commissioning at Olodo. I believe you can fool some people some of the time but it is difficult to fool all of the people all the time. So, we will go back and relocate the Jericho Specialist Hospital and that would be taken as an emergency because it has to happen between now and the end of the year.” “This facility, for instance, is going to be finished up and, by then, we will take the movement of the people from Jericho Specialist to this place as an emergency. Our target is to complete the project before the end of this year.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .