Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde (second left), United States (U.S.) Consulate-General delegates: Benedicta Nkwoh (Oil and Gas, Power and Energy, Marine and Environment) (left), Christine Kelley (Commercial Attache) and Chidinma Akaniro (Franchising, Travel and Tourism), during a courtesy visit to Governor’s Office Secretariat, Ibadan… yesterday. Assembly passes anti-open grazing law
Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has solicited the support of the government of United States (U.S.) in its four cardinal programmes for the advancement of the state’s economy. Makinde, who stated this while receiving delegates from U.S. Consulate-General, Lagos State, at the Executive Chamber, Secretariat, Ibadan yesterday, said that the ‘state is open for business and transparency’ would continue to be the watchword of his administration. He told the U.S. consulate about challenges facing the present administration and the commitment of his government to tackle those challenges. He, therefore, solicited the support of the U.S., especially on its four cardinal programmes, for the overall development of the state in education, health, security and economy. In her address, the U.S. delegates, led by Christine Kelley of U.S. Consulate-General, Lagos, said effective collaboration between Oyo State Government and U.S. consulate would bring much needed development for the state. Both the governor and U.S. delegates later held a closed-door meeting where issues germane to the progress of the state were discussed. Meanwhile, the Oyo State House of Assembly yesterday passed the anti-open grazing bill into law, saying it will foster peace and promote agricultural business in the state. The bill, which was passed at plenary, is expected to avoid continuous damages and end loss of lives and unquantifiable investment to constant clashes between herders and crop farmers. Speaker of the House, Adebo Ogundoyin, appealed to residents of the state to ignore falsehoods and misconceptions of the prohibition of open rearing and grazing of livestock bill that are capable of triggering hostility between the herders and local farmers’ communities. According to him, public hearing was held in which critical reviews and opinions of all concerned stakeholders, individuals, groups and experts were accommodated and considered before the bill was passed into law. “We assured the people that all suggestions and memoranda of understanding submitted by various groups, agencies and representatives of different communities and tribes on the open rearing and grazing regulation bill 2019 were painstakingly looked into before the bill was passed into law. “I am appealing to everyone to shun the rumour spreading that the law is to make life and business unbearable for some targeted group or set of people, rather it seeks to promote peace among residents and different tribes in Oyo State,” the Speaker said. He maintained that the Ninth Assembly through the law was only seeking legal framework to address the issue of open rearing and grazing as well as encourage and protect the economic activities of others who are into agricultural-related ventures and the residents. “Both herders and crop farmers are farmers, and because laws are made to correct, definitely we do not expect it to favour anyone 100 per cent. I implore them to embrace developmental changes this law is bringing into the agricultural business after it is enactment. “Let us consider partnership, cluster farming, co-operative ranches and other helpful methods that are working in successful neighbouring country. If we truly desire development and growth in our agriculture, then we have to get ready and adopt new strategies to boost our produces and reduce loss of resources ,” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .