 Ahmed Mohammad Makarfi.<br />Photo/Twitter/Ahmed_M_Makarfi  Makarfi, who is a member of Schools Old Students Association (USOSA), stated this during the association’s 36th Plenary and Annual General Meeting (AGM), which was held at the Federal Government College, Kaduna at the weekend. He urged Nigerian workers to place a priority on good governance and accountability, saying: “I had challenged, even before I became a governor, the Labour leaders. I knew that you people begin to talk of money, money, and money you will end up with money and that would not be useful. “Rather, you should hold government accountable. Demand good governance, better infrastructure, security and other things expected from government and a living wage, which will be minimal. “But if you are always asking for money, somebody gives you N10 and takes away N30 for example, how do you benefit from that? “We should operate in a manner that government should provide free education, water, security, roads, everything, instead of government to provide for those. That is a major mistake.  We must stop monetisation of everything in this country, then we will begin a path to greatness.” Besides, Minister of Water Resources, Adamu Suleiman, has commended the nation’s founding leaders for establishing the 104 Unity Schools across the country, adding that unity schools have remained one of the most potent unifying factors in the country today. Suleiman, who is a member of USOSA and President of Federal Government College (FGC) Kano Old Students Association said,  “There is no state that I go to in this country that I don’t see my classmates that will host me and be ready to give me a room to sleep. We are very happy with the concept. Meanwhile, the South East Revival Group (SERG) has said attempt to reintroduce tollgates in the nation’s highways would be counter productive, describing Federal Government’s plan to bring back the tollgates, as insensitive to the plight of Nigerians, especially southeasterners. The group said it was shameful and insensitive for the Federal Government to even contemplate reintroduction of tollgates on any Nigerian road, let alone announcing it. Members of SERG, therefore, urged President Muhammadu Buhari not to allow his administration to be hoodwinked by some interested individuals, who do not mean well for the country. In a statement issued yesterday by its National Coordinator, Chief Willy Ezugwu, it cautioned that the Federal Government may be provoking the South East region, in particular, if that part of the country was included in such plan like toll collecting from citizens in such a neglected region. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .