Head coach of Rivers Hoopers Basketball Club, Ogoh Odaudu, has said that he is expecting a tough challenge from other teams when the 2019 Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF) Premier League dunks off tomorrow in Ilorin. Rivers Hoopers alongside 12 other teams in the Atlantic Conference have been invited to compete in Ilorin, while 10 others will battle in the Savannah Conference in Zaria from October 20 to Monday, October 28.
 
Speaking ahead of the league, Odaudu believes it will be a tough battle against any team in the Nigeria Basketball Premier League to secure the ABL ticket.
Only one slot is awarded to Nigeria in the newly formed Basketball Africa League scheduled to begin in March 2020.
 
“It is a tough task. No team will be easy with this situation of only one team securing the ABL ticket at the end of the league session. You can’t afford to have any slip or make any mistake. Hoopers have to approach each game with 100 percent level of seriousness. We won’t underrate any player or team. The players will approach each game as if we are playing the Toronto Raptors in the NBA finals. We are going to do our best to finish top and hopefully grab the one slot awarded to Nigeria,” he stated.
 
Odaudu also added that Lagos City League, organised by Lagos State Basketball Association, which began in June has handed the Lagos based teams an advantage over other basketball clubs outside the state due to inactivity of the National League since the beginning of the year.
 
“It is a great advantage for the Lagos teams. Practice is entirely different from playing matches. They have played lots of matches in the City League experiencing different ball situations.” It will affect us but hopefully with the team that we have and amount of talent on the team, we are confident that we can overcome them.”Rivers Hoopers were expected to depart Port Harcourt yesterday morning for Ilorin, venue of the 2019 NBBF Premier League.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .