 [FILES] Body of Bank CEOs, which was fingered in the whole process, issued a statement and denied asking MTN to start charging customers  Meanwhile, MTN confirmed that it has directed a stay-of-action on the charges, as directed by the Federal Government.
It, however, noted that although it has suspended it, the proposed charge of N4 per 20-second session is currently the lowest in the industry, as other network operators currently charge above that rate.
   
According to MTN, other network providers implemented these charges a long time ago without notifying their subscribers; the banks still deduct an average of N50 for USSD transactions despite the fact that the infrastructure for such transactions is provided and maintained by the network operators.
   
MTN noted that it would be nice to ascertain if other network service providers have complied with the government’s directive as MTN has done.
   
Rising in defense of MTN, the Association of Licensed Telecom Operators of Nigeria (ALTON), noted that the N4.00 charges as determined by the NCC, the telecom industry regulator.
   
ALTON, through its Administrative Secretary, Gbolahan Awonuga, noted that the determination of the USSD charges started via a study conducted by the regulator in 2017, and by May 2019, the determination was issued. The study on USSD, he disclosed was conducted by the NCC and industry working group (IWG), after the CBN set up a committee that was made up of members from the Bankers’ Committee.
   
In reaction to the Minister’s suspension of the plan, ALTON insisted that the issue being discussed is not policy, but commercial, to which the CBN also described as an embedded cost for telcos and not a fresh investment that should be passed down to consumers.
  
“We are confusing regulation with policy. There was a determination on this USSD, even before the appointment of the Minister,” Gbolahan explained during an interaction in a WhatsApp Group.
   
He argued that the CBN is protective of the banks, but wondered why the telecom operators cannot be protected. “It is not about the good boy, but this is commercial, and the normal things have been done. Operators did not come up overnight to charge N4. It was deliberated upon and a decision taken,” he stressed.
    
Speaking with The Guardian, Gbolahan said there was no formal letter from the bank’s CEO to the effect that they have withdrawn from the plan, “Mind you, this is a study that we started since 2017. We had also argued that from the N50 they are charging for each transaction, why can’t they consider the consumers and give telcos part of the money? If you take N46, the telcos will take N4, but they don’t want to part with any money at all. But they forgot that this service rides on telecoms infrastructure. “As I said, this is a commercial dealing, if you are not comfortable with operator A charging N4, you can go to other operators charging a lower rate. Telcos are not a charitable organisation; they are also in business to make money. If the banks are charging with any infrastructure on the ground, the telcos too should be able to charge.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .