Capital market shareholders have condemned the N499 billion fines slammed on 12 commercial banks by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), for breaching the regulator’s directive on lending to the real sector, insisting the move is capable of shrinking the banks’ earnings, and ultimately erode profitability and dividend payout. The LDR policy is expected to push banks to increase lending to high-risk borrowers with the potential to incur heavy losses and higher non-performing loans (NPLs).
   
Besides, the investors stressed the need for banks to adhere strictly to policy directives from the regulators to avoid sanctions and penalties that may arise due to non-compliance.  “We, therefore, call on the CBN, to as matter of urgency, review downward the above fine meted out to the 12 banks.”
   
CBN directed banks to maintain a minimum Loan-to-Deposit Ratio (LDR) of 60 per cent by September 30, 2019. The LDR was reviewed upwards from 58.5 per cent to 60 per cent with the banks informed to main the LDR till September end. The LDR has now been increased, and all deposit money banks (DMBs) are to now attain a minimum LDR of 65 per cent by December 31, 2019.
   
The CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele, had earlier warned of a penalty if banks failed to attain the LDR by September end. 
   
“The CBN Director, Banking Supervision, Ahmad Abdullahi, had also stated in July, that “Failure to meet the above minimum LDR by the specified date shall result in a levy or additional Cash Reserve Requirement equal to 50% of the lending shortfall of the target.”
   
The LDR, which is being reviewed quarterly to improve lending to the real sector was 58.5 per cent as at May and now raised to 65 per cent for the last quarter of the year.
   
A CBN circular: “Regulatory Measures to Improve Lending to the Real Sector of the Nigerian Economy,” said to ramp up economic growth through investment in real sector, the CBN approved that all banks should maintain a minimum LDR of 60 per cent.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .