The National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, yesterday said that the party’s candidate for the November 16, 2019 governorship in Bayelsa, Chief David Lyon, was rightly chosen.” During a meeting with the leadership and members of the Ogbia Brotherhood shortly before kicking off the Lyon/Degi governorship campaign at Ogbia town in Ogbia Local Council of the state, the ex-labour leader said the APC kicked off its campaign in the kingdom “because of the historical significance of the fact that all the candidates that have received the support of the people of Ogbia kingdom have always emerged victorious in elections.” He assured the people that their resources were safe in Lyon’s hands if given the nod to be the state’s next chief His words: “Lyon stands as an example to young people that when you serve your community, your state and stand on the side of peace to protect the national assets, time will come when you will be given the mandate to preside over the affairs of state. “I think that is the story of Lyon. The way the PDP has reacted to his nomination shows that we have made the right choice. I told somebody that if you appoint an Inspector General of Police and you begin to receive congratulatory messages from criminals, know that you have made the wrong appointment. “But if you appoint an Inspector General of Police and you begin to receive condemnation from criminals that the man is a bad man, know that you have made the right choice. That is the case of the PDP with the candidate of the APC in Bayelsa State.” The Deputy Chairman of Ogbia Brotherhood, High Chief Alfred Singer, subsequently gave his blessings to the visitors. He reminded his audience that “this kingdom is the first place Nigeria’s wealth was first discovered in commercial quantity. This kingdom has helped to build cities across Nigeria. This kingdom has developed people and helped to build universities. But as you can see, in terms of infrastructure development, our kingdom is at its lowest ebb.” The APC chair submitted that they were not out to witch-hunt but to deliver service. On his part, Lyon spoke in the same like. Also speaking, the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, expressed hope. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .