Partnership for Advocacy in Child and Family Health (PACFaH) has advocated prudent management and transparency of the N6.5billion Basic Health Care Provision Fund (BHCPF), targeted to carter for basic health burdens in the country. Besides, the group cautioned less interference of governments in the management of the funds, which the group insisted, should be used primarily to improve the healthcare of common citizens. Stipulated in the National Health Act,2014, no less than 1 percent of the Consolidated Revenue of the Federation shall be earmarked to fund Basic Health Care Provision Fund (BHCPF), among other resources from donor agencies. The special fund is intended to deliver primary health services, provision of a basic minimum package of health services and emergency medical treatment to all Nigeria. FACFaH coordinator in Kano, Umar Umar said the group is particularly concern about transparent management and implementation of basic healthcare to attain the Universal Health Care Coverage in the country. Umar noted that with the Federal government’s late releases of the funds to benefiting states, implementation of the services within the stipulated circle target may be difficult. A representative of the Federation of Muslim Women’s Association in Nigeria, (FOMWAN), Sa’adatu Hasimu stressed that PACFaH is worried over the discrepancies between the budgetary allocation and actual releases for the implementation of the BHCPF. “The BHCPF is a fundamental healthcare funding provided by the National Health Act but the interference from higher level of government may also contribute to making the fund inaccessible to implementers, this may extend the target,” Hashim said. “For instance in 2018, N55.15billion was allocated, only N12.7billion was released; whist in 2019, out of the N51billion allocation, only N15billion was approved for release. Yet, it was N6.5billion disbursed to state. “Kano state is one of the selected 15 states and has received the second tranche of BHCPF in the sum of N948million. We recommend that the BHCPF should be prioritized and that government should allow implementation according to the law that established it.” The group wanted sustained media advocacy on the implementation of the funds to protect and promote basic healthcare service delivery in the country To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .