 Iba Gani Adams  The Aare Ona-Kakanfo, who said that political leaders should differentiate between politics and security, added that without security, there could not be good governance.He commended the present complementary roles between the police and the OPC on security matters, especially in the South-West, adding that stakeholders should support the collaboration rather than work against it. “Do you know that some South-West governors are recruiting their political errand boys for security purposes without consulting me or the OPC anymore. And when the issue of security threats come, they’ll remember to call the Aare-Ona Kakanfo to come and intervene. I’m not getting salary from government, but I’ve been using my money to run this position and our money for this organisation. “When a government politicizes security, it’s doomed to fail. It’s a signal to Nigeria. If there’s any security problem in the area, they should not hold me or the Inspector-General of Police (IGP) responsible. The IG has done his part, partnering with the organisation with antecedents. But some of our governors want to politicise security issues. It’s uncalled for and it is unacceptable,” he said. Adams, who also reiterated call for restructuring of the nation, said: “The problem we have in Nigeria is that we don’t want to agree on how to solve our problems. In as much as we continue to do that, there will still be impediments on our way. The only way to move Nigeria forward is through restructuring back to federating units. By then, every region will develop at its own pace. Most of the problems compounded by federal structure are not necessary. Through federating units, there will be room for innovation by political leaders and regions. Issue of security would be tackled by federal and state police. “Without restructuring, we are deceiving ourselves. Our government does not know that voice of people is voice of God.     It would be hard to run a government if you say you have power as a government to suppress or ignore voice of people. This is because before people clamour for something, God has assigned it from Heaven. So, a good government must listen to voice of the people. “I’ve moved round. I recently called for repair of Badagry-Mile 2 road. There’s no any federal road in South-West that is motorable. Do we need to spend lots of money taking flights here and there because of bad roads? Most of the main roads are federal roads. Lagos to Ilorin should be a three-hour journey. It could have been a pleasure travelling on roads seeing serene environment and different communities.” What stops us from having good roads? We have the resources. We are not allowing our federating units to generate resources for government. If government had allowed federating units to generate resources, our revenue generation would have been more than what we have today. Definitely, our contractors would have confidence in us. An example is the collaboration we have with the police for security in the South-West.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .