Popular stage and screen celebrities, Hilda Dokubo and Steve Onu, who is popular as Yaw, and Pamela Udoka are among the long list of thespians appointed Ambassadors for the special edition of the yearly Nigerian Universities Theatre Arts Festival (NUTAF), dubbed ‘Special NUTAF 2019.’ With the theme, ‘Theatre, Governance, and Globalisation,’ this edition, scheduled to hold between October 20 and 26, is aimed at enhancing talent and creativity among theatre arts students across the country’s universities. Powered by the National Association of Nigerian Theatre Arts Practitioners (NANTAP), in association with the Nigerian Universities Theatre Arts Students Association (NUTASA) and the Society of Nigerian Theatre Artists (SONTA), this edition would play host a contingent of Theatre Arts students from 33 universities in Nigeria, supported by the National Theatre, Nigeria chapter of the International Theatre Institute (ITI-NIGERIA), MTN Nigeria, Zmirage, IATC and Ariiya Tickets. It would be the first time the age-long student theatre festival, which debuted in 1981 at the University of Ibadan (UI), would be held outside its traditional hosting area-the university. The festival has since inception, held on rotational basis among universities in Nigeria, with the last edition held in June last year at the Plateau State University, Bokkos. President of NANTAP, Mr. Israel Eboh, said the association agreed to host this special NUTAF, which would feature activities, such as drama, dances, spoken word, stand up comedy, workshops and costume carnival, because it aligns itself with the desire of the Professor Emmanuel Dandaura-led Board of Trustees of NUTAF to expose the students to a more professional environment of theatrical presentations, particularly the technical aspects. In a short goodwill message she sent to confirm her acceptance as celebrity ambassador, Hilda described herself as a “proud NUTASITE, being a theatre student and attending several NUTAF.” Star of countless Nollywood movies, Hilda admonished students attending the festival to see their participation as “one big space and an open cheque of opportunities,” adding: “Make great use of this opportunity, start off conversations, build friendships and be open to learning and in all, that you make this outing count.” On her part, theatre artiste, clinical psychologist cum relational, marital and sex therapist, Pamela, admonished participating students to be focused, involved, teachable, friendly and to maximise the week they would spend in Lagos for NUTAF. “I tell you for free, NUTAF is a platform you can build your dream on, then fly,” she said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .